A mosque in Sector 11 of Dwarka was attacked by Hindu vigilantes fueled with their religious intolerance and hatred. Perpetrators pelted stones at the mosque from across the road but no one got hurt during the attack. This mosque was previously attacked in the month of February. After the recent incident police was informed about it and an FIR was filed against the unidentified persons.
On 14th June, Pastor Tomy Joseph and his wife Veena were visiting a Christian family in Pinjore, Haryana when a mob of over 50 people gathered at the house. They questioned the purpose of their visit and according to Pastor Tomy abused and threatened the couple to leave. The Pastor alleges that the mob was threatening them to apologise to villagers. A village head-man and local Municipal Corporation leader reached the scene and asked the Pastor and his wife to leave.  Just as the two were leaving, they were attacked by the mob. A local woman hid the Pastor's wife and the Christian family they were visiting rescued the Pastor. Pastor Tomy said that as the family tried to calm down the mob, they too were attacked with
As the class 12 students were already frustrated with the exams during the Covid-19, they were also subjected to communal hatred and alleged to be spreading Covid-19. When Muslim students reached the school they were stopped by the school staffs at the entry point and was denied entry in the examination hall. And they were made to sit outside in this extreme temperature. The parents of the students pleaded with the school authorities but such pleadings got unheard altogether. This incident reported from “Bangali School” located in Navlakha area of Indore, Madhya Pradesh, the Centre superintendent of the school claimed that this was a preventive measure as the Muslim students had come from red zone. However, Dainik Jagran, quoting several people at the exam centre, said many Hindu students from red zone were allowed to sit in halls.
Gursimar Setia has alleged that he was assaulted, verbally abused and had his articles of faith attacked by Uttar Pradesh Police personnel ASP Saurabh Dixit in Agra in the evening. Setia, who studies at the West Bengal National University of Juridical Sciences, claimed that the incident took place at 7:40 PM at Sanjay Place in Agra where he had come with his friend to withdraw cash. “Seeing two men, the police began harassing us....ASP Saurabh Dixit started verbally abusing me after seeing that I had long hair tied in a bun,” Setia claimed on Twitter. Setia alleges that Dixit asked for his ID and after seeing that he was Sikh, began abusing him and “proceeded to physically assault” him and even pulled his hair. He claims that his friend was also assaulted by the police.
Samaru Madkami, a 14-year-old boy was murdered by a mob in Kenduguda, a village in the eastern Indian state’s Malkangiri district of Odhisa. The attackers had tried to kidnap three Christians, but two of them, who were physically strong, managed to escape the mob, leaving Madkami, a seventh grader, to their mercy. Madkami was the son of Unga Madkami, who serves in the Bethel House Church. Samaru had lost his mother when he was an infant. On June 5, Pastor Pusuru went to the Malkangiri Police Station to lodge a complaint about the teen. The station in charge dispatched three police vehicles to the village. However, the suspects disappeared by the time the police arrived. The police however managed to arrest around a dozen suspects by around 9 PM on June 5. The attackers then narrated how they chopped the boy’s body into pieces and buried it before fleeing the scene. The boy and his father had become Christians three years ago. Since then, they started facing harassment from their neighbors and radicals from outside. Around 11 am on June 3, some villagers picked the boy telling him that he had to attend a meeting in a nearby forest. The gang returned armed with arms at midnight to pick up the father, but he managed to escape and went to the police station to make a complaint. The boy’s family, church members and the pastor now await the magistrate’s orders to exhume the body.
BJP MP Maneka Gandhi had alleged that a pregnant female elephant was fed a pineapple filled with crackers in Malapurram district and also claimed Malapurram to be the most violent district in the country without any valid source of information. This statement was targeted towards the Muslim majority district Malapurram but she quoted wrong facts as a way to create communal hatred. After detailed report on the investigation of the pregnant elephant it was revealed that it didn't die in Malapurram rather died in Palakkad district. Her speech has led to a huge communal uproar.
A 18-year-old youth was going to his friend's place to charge his phone because there was no electricity. While travelling there he got surrounded by few people who asked him to chant
Dr. Aarti Lalchandani is the principal of Kanpur's Ganesh Shankar Vidhyarthi Medical College. In April, her hospital administration had gone on record to allege misbehaviour by members of Tablighi Jamaat, who attended a gathering in March in violation of virus precautions and were linked to a spurt in COVID-19 cases across India. The hospital had alleged that members of the sect were quarantined at the hospital were prone to spitting randomly and also
On 25th May, in Taprana village of Shamli, Uttar Pradesh police attempted to arrest a fugitive named Afzal, a man accused of cow slaughter. He had returned to his village on Eid. Unable to find Afzal, police officers along with the Superintendent came back on the night of 26th May and vandalised lose to 35 houses. According to residents, they barged into houses, attacked innocent bystanders, broke household appliances and damaged cars. Women in the village also claimed that their jewellery and money was taken. According to residents, the violence lasted two nights. Police sources allege that the residents had pelted stones on the police and injured 3 officers, after which they arrested 30 people including Afzal and registered cases against 100.
On May 27, in Mau district in the state of Uttar Pradesh when Pastor Dinesh was returning from a Church member's house on his motorbike after praying there. He stopped in between his journey to relieve himself at the side when he head sound from his back. Hearing some noise behind him, he glanced behind only to be hit by a wooden rod on his head, he fell on the ground when he saw 4 men with wooden rods and knives. He secured several bruises and swellings all over his body resulting from being hit with wooden rods and knives. He survived the attack and was taken to the hospital in time. He was admitted in the ICU where he received proper treatment and currently his treatment is going on.
BJP Punjab secretary Sukhpal Singh Sra was arrested by police after he allegedly pelted stones at an inter-faith couple's house in Jogi Nagar of Bathinda district, Punjab. A Muslim man and a Hindu girl had recently got married and were staying at a house in Jogi Nagar. Irked over the inter-faith wedding, the BJP leader and his supporters, along with the woman’s parents, termed the marriage “love jihad” and attacked the couple’s house. In a police complaint, Raveena has stated she had married Deepak Khan of Jogi Nagar of her own volition, while her parents and other members of family were against it. Further, she stated that when she reached her husband’s house after the marriage, accused Karamjit, Sunita Rani, Moti Ram, Rinku, Monu, Chinu, Sukhpal Singh Sra and Yadav entered their house by damaging the door and pelted them with stones. After the registration of the case, Sra was arrested. Later, BJP workers and Hindu outfits protested outside the Kotwali police station. They demanded a case be registered against the groom and his family members.
On 17th May 2020, Mohammed Majid Ansari reached Kanpur along 4 other migrant workers. They all were travelling on foot without food and water. They were stopped at a police check post and were asked where they were travelling to. So they answered it accordingly, and they were allowed to travel. After walking for a short distance an ambulance approached them, and they were told that they would be taken for check up for Covid-19. So they all got on the ambulance. After 30 minutes of their ride the ambulance stopped, and they were asked to show their Aadhaar cards. Everyone showed their Aadhaar card and 4 other workers were returned their cards but Majid was denied. Driver and his aid started hitting Majid alleging him to be spreading Covid-19 since he was a Muslim. Then he was choked with a cloth, but he broke the window during the assault and fled from the scene. He then called his brother Sajid Ansari in Mandu, Jharkhand, and he reported the incident to the police there but police took no action citing that it was not under their jurisdiction. Majid reached Lucknow on foot and there he was helped by the police to board a bus to Bihar border. And from there he reached his home.
Various incidents of social boycott against muslims have arisen in the village of Shiv Gunj in Kanpur. Rumours have been manufactured that the muslim inhabitants of the area are carriers of the Novel Coronavirus and are denied both services and opportunities of employment by the villagers. Mohammed Iqbal was shooed away from a barber who was offering services to other people on the grounds that he was a muslim and would infect others. While Hindu labourers from the same village were able to get work in agricultural fields, muslim labourers were not. Muslims were also denied access to the public toilet situated in the village, which forced even women to go to the jungle and fields for the purpose, as reported by Ibrahim Baba. Many from Ibrahim’s community wish to work as agricultural or daily-wage labourers in the village to earn their livelihood, but are not able to, “I want to feed my family well but nobody is giving us work. They say all Muslims have Corona so we can’t be employed,” said Ibrahim.
A Muslim man in Tripura was thrashed and threatened to convert religion in order to reside in the region. This incident took place on Wednesday night at 9 p.m. when the victim, Abu Hossain Choudhury, came out of his home for making wudu (ablution) for isha Namaz (night prayer). Suddenly, two hindutva goons from nearby locality came there, strated abusing him and his religion and thrashed him with bamboo sticks. The two accused men were identified as Jhutan Das and Bikas Das. According to Choudhury, Jhutan Das was the main culprit and it was he who used the communal slur against Islam and abused him physically. Abul Hossain Choudhury said they were offering prayer in home with family members. In the middle of the namaz he came out for re-making wudu (ablution done before prayer).He saw his neighbourhood cousin was there and went and greeted him. After two minutes, the two men came and started to verbally abuse them and asked them to go home. Choudhury said why should he go home as he was in his property itself and that he would return home only after Namaz. After listening to the word
West Delhi BJP MP Parvesh Verma Thursday posted a two-month old video of Muslims offering namaz (congregational prayer) in large numbers in the national capital to claim they were violating the lockdown and social distancing rules, but was called out by Delhi Police that asked him to “verify before posting and spreading rumors”. Later on both Verma and Delhi Police deleted their tweets. The BJP MP, in his tweet in Hindi, wrote: “Does any religion permit this kind of behavior in the wake of coronavirus? Lockdown and social distancing norms have been torn to shreds…”. He further asked Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to deduct the salaries of maulvis to stop such practices.
Communal VIolence broke out in Bhansia in Telangana, after a few people belonging to the Hindu community objected to prayers being held at a Mosque. The violence took place in the Shivajinagar and AP Nagar areas in Bhainsa. The perpetrators alleged that the prayers were in violation of the COVID-19 Social Distancing Rules. Local Muslims, however, say that the norms were being followed and only five people were at the mosque praying at a distance from each other. Later that night a man in an inebriated condition created nuisance near the mosque, which led to the clashes. There was stone pelting and two people were injured in the clash, one of whom is said to be in a serious condition. It is learnt that two sections thrashed each other with large sticks. Vehicles and certain houses were damaged in the clash. Some women sustained minor injuries due to pelting of the stones. Police imposed prohibitory orders and directed the people to stay indoors.
A 25-year old muslim youth was brutally attacked by a group of people after being called a carrier of the Coronavirus in Aligarh, Uttar Pradesh. The victim, Abdul Samad,  was on his way to buy medicines from a local chemist when the incident occurred. Samad was rushed to Malkhan Singh District Hospital by relatives who arrived at the spot after people raised an alarm. As per the victim’s father,  Laiqur Rehman, Samad was feeling dizzy after his Ramzan fast on Friday night and went to a neighbourhood chemist shop to purchase some medicine where he was stopped by some people, who attacked him without any provocation. Samad is now out of danger and has been referred to Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College Hospital. Aligarh police have charged six people in the case.
An owner of a bakery in Chennai was arrested on Saturday over an advertisement that boasted of having “no Muslim staff”. The owner of “Jain Bakeries & Confectioneries” has been booked under section 295A (Deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or reli­gious beliefs) and section 504 of the IPC (Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace). The advertisement put out by the bakery, which is located at Chennai’s Mahalakshmi Street in T. Nagar, said,
On Sunday, 10 May, the locality of Telinipara in West Bengal's Hooghly district saw massive clashes between its Hindu and Muslim residents.While police say the the situation was calm on 11 May, Tuesday, 12 May, saw a fresh spate of violence. Internet services in the area remained suspended as the forces conducted raids and routine marches to nab the miscreants. Clashes had erupted in the Telinipara area last week after members of a community were allegedly taunted and addressed as
After communal tension broke out in Shahpur on 8th May, 2020 , the local police resorted to violent measures with the goal of ensuring that the social distancing rules are followed in the area. The incident is believed to have been sparked by a heated exchange between patrolling policemen and three men sitting outside their homes in the containment zone. Soon, the scuffle attracted others and the people accused the law-enforcers of harassing the minority community in the holy month of Ramadan blaming them for enforcing a stricter lockdown than elsewhere in the city – where a sudden ban on the sale of fruits and vegetables was announced two days ago with only milk and medicines available. The following day, the police went berserk and arrested 20 people with brute use of force. During such time, the policemen broke open the strongly-built powerful door of his home and baton-charged his mother reading a religious book as well as his wife, who was breastfeeding a kid, was also injured in the assault. Victims of the incident recall the police assaulting women with batons, including a woman who is 3 months pregnant as well as an elderly woman who attempted to help her. The NCW has taken cognizance of the issue and has sought an inquiry and initiation of strict legal action against police officials.
Members of seven Muslim households in Faridpur Kazi, Uttar Pradesh were assaulted by police personnel on the suspicion of cow slaughter. The victims families were verbally abused and three men were detained. The police personnel arrived around the time of iftar and hurled abuses at the residents, rummaging through their homes with a focus on kitchen items in most houses—they threw around utensils and leftover food. Most members of the households told the police gave them no reason for the search. The policemen beat up a few of male members in the households and took three men to Kotwali Thana, a police station in Bijnor city, a few kilometres away. The next morning, the village’s sarpanch, Iqbal went to the police station, after which the men were released without any charge sheet or first-information report. Iqbal told us that the police had said that they “came to the village on the basis of suspicion. They had been informed that a cow has been slaughtered
A complaint was filed by Maulana Sabir Qasmi against Police officers who had thrashed Mufti Mansoor Sadiq. The actions of the Police officers led to unrest in the area as no action was being taken against them for assault against the Mufti. DC Palwal Naresh Narwal was handed the complaint by Maulana Sabir Qasmi, insisting that the matter be quickly investigated and a case be registered against the cops who were involved in the incident. The perpetrator was suspended for a period of six months by the department but the people have been asking for prosecution since physical assault requires much more than just a suspension. It is to be noted that Mufti Mansoor Sadiq had not violated any guidelines of the lockdown despite which he was beaten.
A muslim woman was denied admission as a patient in a private hospital in Patna due to her religion.  A legal notice was issued to Saroj Hospital in Kankarbagh for discrimination of patients on the basis of faith. It has been stated that the sister of Shahnawaz Hasan, a Muslim patient was refused to be admitted and treated due to her religion earlier last week. A legal notice was sent to the hospital which demanded a public apology for the discrimination based on religion and stated that if such apology was not furnished, appropriate legal action would be taken. The hospital immediately issued a public apology and stated that it has never discriminated on the grounds of religion. Acknowledging that it might have shown disaffection against a particular patient, the authorities requested an apology for the same.
A poster was hung outside a village named Pemalpur of Depalpur Tehsil in Indore district of Madhya Pradesh. The poster read,
29 April 2020: A video of BJP MLA Brij Bhushan Rajput from the Charkhari Mahoba assembly seat of Mahoba in Uttar Pradesh has surfaced, in which he is driving a Muslim vegetable vendor out of the area and also warns not to appear there again. According to the information, this video is of the MLA's residence in the capital Lucknow. After the controversial video of Suresh Tiwari and then Brij Bhushan came out on the other side, Uttar Pradesh government minister Siddharth Nath Singh has come forward and said that action will be taken in the matter. He said, 'Our national president has made it clear that the party will take immediate action on any BJP member who talks like this.
A group of people came banging on a mosque's doors when the call to prayer (azaan) was being made in Bori sarai village of Khandwa district in Madhya Pradesh. There were only 3 people in the mosque which was in accordance with the government order. All the three of them were called outside and beaten up while being verbally abused. Threats were made by the perpetrators that they would kill anyone who continued to pray in mosques. A lock was put up on the door of the mosque by one of the perpetrators while they verbally abused the Muslims present. Despite Inspector Sandeep Meena being present at the location, he took no action.
Fauzia Anjum, a NGO worker with the Gramin Poorna Yojana and Asian Bridge India was involved in the distribution of toiletries to women folk since the initiation of the lockdown in Bhatpurwa village, Varanasi while staying at the house of Sarita who was also involved in the same work. During Fauzia's stay, Sarita and her husband began facing threats from the villagers regarding the presence of a Muslim at their place. They were even refused transactions by the traders in the area citing Fauzia's presence. This led to the villagers staging a protest in front of Sarita's house demanding that Fauzia be sent away or they would set the house on fire. Police arrived on the spot and took Fauzia away. She was later sent to her Uncle's house. Fauzia said that she has been working in the same field for the last two years and this incident was a first with her. She said that she never faced such an issue in the villages where she had earlier worked but that the situation has been communalized now.
26 April 2020: A mosque in Gorakhpur‘s Bankata village was vandalised and the muezzin was attacked by goons for allegedly giving azaan on a loudspeaker amid lockdown. According to Hindustan Times reports, the incident took place on Sunday afternoon under Sikriganj police station limit of the district. The trouble begin when the 35-year-old Muezzin Abdul Rahman gave the azaan. As soon as the muezzin concluded the call to prayer, five to six people barged into the mosque and created ruckus. The attackers thrashed the muezzin and also allegedly desecrated the Holy Quran and also broke the sound box of the loudspeaker. Ali said after hearing the commotion, he locked the attackers by closing the door and informed police. In the meantime, the attackers came out of the mosque an began abusing and threaten him with dire consequences and went away. Later on, they came with some more men and attacked Ali. When his father Azmat Ali, 50, rushed to his help, the goons also beaten Azmat who suffered severe head injuries and fracture.  The attackers then fled the scene. This led to communal tension in the locality. Upon getting the information, police rushed to site and appeal to maintain harmony. “People from both the sides are ready for a compromise and have assured us that such incident will not reoccur,” said Jatashankar, station house officer, Sikriganj police station.
A fruit vendor in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri was thrashed by people after they accused him of gargling water and spitting it on the watermelons. Kheri Police on Tuesday said that the allegations made against the vendor, Chand Ali, that he spat on the watermelons turned out to be “false and baseless” after a probe and questioning of the locals. The police, however, in a statement issued on Twitter, also dismissed the allegations made by the vendor that the policemen present there also thrashed him along with the locals. “Public surrounded me and started hitting me. Police didn't help, they hit me a lot,” Ali said. “The more I pleaded, the more they hit me.” Kheri police said that a team from the Kotwali Sadar police station reached the spot in Mohalla Barkherva on April 25 after it was widely circulated on Whatsapp groups that the vendor was allegedly selling watermelons after spitting water on them and that local women had caught hold of him. Police found that Mr. Ali had been a regular at selling seasonal fruits. “Due to the heat, he was carrying a bottle of water with him. Then a few local youths came there and started creating a ruckus by spreading the false allegation of him spitting water on the watermelons,” said Kheri police.
23 April 2020: Noor Mohammed, a fruit seller who operates in Awas Vikas and Collecterate Colonies of Bijnor was assaulted by three youths. In his complaint, he is quoted as
A surgeon in Nagpur has been arrested and had charges filed against him for tweeting against the Muslim community. Emboldened by the ongoing atmosphere of hate in the country, Dr Satish Sonar, an orthopedic surgeon in Nagpur, called for genocide of Indian Muslims. A tweet appearing on Dr Satish’s Twitter handle, On April 23, read: “Now since ,Radical, Islamist and anarchist journos and illegitimate Citizens are talking about so called Islamophobia and Genocide… So let’s begin it, prove them right. Wipe out the Bastards from the Map.” The police arrested the perpetrator after a complaint was raised by another individual.
The 75-year-old elder Nafisa Khatoon says,
A Mumbai resident refused to take delivery of the grocery items he ordered online from a Muslim delivery agent. The 51-year-old man has now been arrested. The accused was produced before a Thane court and sent to judicial custody. The incident took place on Tuesday when the 32-year-old Muslim delivery man went to deliver groceries at Srushti Complex home of the accused at Mira Road.
Khaleel, a resident of Bijnor, was going to his farm on a tractor. His farm is near Tibri village of Bijnor district in Uttarpradesh where his tractor got stuck in a drain. He asked people for help take the tractor out of the drain. Nobody came for his help and after some time he was beaten by a group of people during which his ear was bruised. Khaleel informed that he was beaten saying that he was spreading the Coronavirus. He also mentioned that he was abused both verbally and physically.
Two videos of an elderly fruit seller were widely circulated on social media claiming that he sprinkled his urine on the bananas that he was selling. In the first video, the fruit seller is seen standing near his cart. When asked if he urinated in a bottle, he moves ahead saying, “Don’t talk stupid”. In the second video, the elderly man is seen standing in front of a house and profusely apologizing. He is doing sit-ups while a person behind the camera claims that the man urinated in a bottle, then sprinkled the urine on bananas. The fruit seller says, “I made a mistake, I am a poor labourer, I have a heart problem.” He then tries to leave the spot but the person who is probably filming the video shouts, “Don’t go anywhere. Stay right there. If you go, you will get a bad [beating]. It’s because of you, the problem will arise. Bijnor will be destroyed.” Bijnor Police stated that the old man seen in the video is Irfan Ahmed, who sells seasonal fruits roaming around the city. On April 20, he was selling fruits in Bukhara colony of Bijnor district in Uttarpradesh when he went to urinate in a lane. Subsequently, he washed his hands with water from a bottle kept on his cart and later sprinkled the water over the fruits and drank water from the same bottle. A passer-by started creating ruckus claiming that he sprinkled urine over the fruits. However, in the video, the man cannot be seen doing the same. The police informed that prima facie the video appears to have been made for spreading rumours. Irfan Ahmed was initially arrested, but he has now been given bail and sent to a quarantine ward. Police are looking for the people who uploaded the video on social media.
19 April 2020: Hari Bahadur was allegedly forced to chant 'Jai Shri Ram' in Kangra district of Himachal Pradesh. He had gone to visit a friend in his car due to the lockdown. A group of VHP workers arrived at his friend's house claiming that Hari was propagating Christianity. They brought along ASI Jagdish in order to show that people were being misled in the name of religion. The Police party came and performed a check of the house and the vehicle in which Hari had come while issuing a fine for the same. Later, a video surfaced showing that Hari was being forced by the workers to chant 'Jai Shri Ram'.
19 April 2020: Pregnant and bleeding, a woman who came to MGM hospital was asked to clean up her blood, accused of spreading the coronavirus, and turned away-events which culminated in the loss of her child. In a letter to the Chief Minister Hemant Soren, 30-year-old Rizwana Khatun said that she had started bleeding Thursday on afternoon after which she rushed to the MGM Hospital. “I was abused on the lines of my religion and was asked to wipe the blood. I could not because I was shivering. I was beaten up with slippers. I was shocked and rushed to a nursing home.there it came out that my child had died,” she alleged in her letter. The Jharkhand Police has taken cognizance of the incident and the Jamshedpur SSP has been asked to inquire into the matter.
BJP MLA Suresh Tiwari has reportedly asked people in Deoria district not to purchase vegetables from Muslim vendors. The legislator from the district’s Barhaj constituency was heard making the remarks in a video doing the rounds on social media. “Keep one thing in mind, I am telling everyone openly, no one should purchase vegetables from Muslims,” he told some people, including government officials. The legislator claimed he had only given his opinion, and it was up to people to decide if they wanted to follow it. “Everyone can see what Jamaat members have done in the country,” Tiwari said, referring to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi last month.
17 April 2020: Uttar Pradesh Police on Sunday filed a case against the owner of a cancer hospital in Meerut for publishing an advertisement stating that Muslim patients and their attendants would only be admitted if they tested negative for the coronavirus. In the 11-point advertisement in Dainik Jagran on April 17, Valentis Cancer Hospital blamed the religious congregation in Delhi Nizamuddin for the spread of the coronavirus in the country. It also chastised a section of the community for misbehaving with health professionals. “It is due to the ignorance of some Muslim brothers that everyone will have to suffer for some time,” the advertisement read. “But this is in larger public interest and also in the interest of Muslim brothers.” A day later, the hospital issued a clarification in a second advertisement. “A wrong message was published by mistake,” it said. “We deny that, and regret and apologize for the same.” Police filed a case against hospital owner Amit Jain for “deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings” Incholi Station House Officer Brijesh Kumar Singh said. The first information report was registered on the complaint of a sub-inspector level officer.
17 April 2020: Shoaib and his co-worker Rahul Dongar had gone to spray sanitizer in the city’s Jamalpura area when a man accosted Shoaib, claiming that he had been spitting to spread the infection. Rahul, who belongs to the Valmiki community, then came to his rescue and started filming the whole incident on his mobile phone. He is seen arguing with the person, urging him to produce evidence that Shoaib, or he had been spitting in the area. The man in a pink shirt goes on to say that he “cannot trust one particular community because of the various media reports that show them spitting in 50 different places and spreading coronavirus.” Rahul captured the whole incident on a video. The man in the video persistently accuses them of spitting deliberately to spread the infection. “I have seen you spitting. I don’t trust you people. There is one community whom nobody trusts,” the man says, exposing his prejudice against Muslims. Both Shoaib and Rahul have been working as sanitation staff with the city’s municipal corporation for the last 12 years. They said they hadn’t encountered such aggressive communal discrimination before. Ever since the Tablighi Jamaat cluster has been discovered, there has been a spurt of media reports that have attempted to falsely pin the blame of coronavirus spread on the whole Muslim community. This has not only communalized the pandemic but has fuelled distrust and suspicion against Muslims among large sections of Indians.
Jameel Choudhary, president, Dodhi Gujjar Community in Jammu, told this newspaper that some sections of society in the three districts have been boycotting milk and milk products being supplied by the community in the region, suspecting them to be coronavirus carriers. The Gujjars, he said, meet over 50 per cent milk demand of the three districts. Choudhary said malicious propaganda and hate is being spread that Gujjars are carriers of Covid-19. “This is despite that no community members has tested positive for coronavirus, so far,” he said. “This country runs on perceptions created by electronic media. And we have become its latest victims. Some elements in Jammu want to hurt us financially and started a campaign that all Muslims especially Gujjars are coronavirus carriers. Many people stopped buying milk from us,” says Jameel Choudhary, president of Dodhi Gujjar Association in Jammu to Economic Times. He himself runs a dairy farm and has suffered huge losses in past few weeks.  These Muslim Gujjars have decided not to “cave-in” to the “malicious hate propaganda” against them and instead supply milk free at quarantine centres in Samba, Jammu and Kathua districts.
16 April 2020: Rukhsar Perween has to walk a few extra miles to collect her drinking water, amid the on-going lockdown. The Bhatpara municipal water supply tap in her area has been cordoned off by Hindus, and Muslims have been told to get their drinking water from elsewhere. “They say that we are Muslims and hence we can transmit coronavirus to them. They have put up barricades of bamboo and dupatta around the tap. We can’t even dare to enter that spot for water. So, even during the lockdown either me or my sister have to go to a far-off municipal tap to collect drinking water,” said Rukhsar. She is not a resident of UP or Gujarat, from where several videos showing Muslim vendors being told to not enter Hindu areas, have gone viral.  Sharing a similar experience was Zainab Khatoon, a resident of Darba Line in Kankinara. While speaking to eNewsroom, she disclosed, “We don’t have enough stored ration. Hence, we often visit local grocery shops to buy essentials. However, after the Tablighi Jamaat incident, the shopkeeper of other faith, don’t take money from our hands. They have kept a small bowl for us to place the money.” She paused and then added, “They even call us Corona Virus and even say that they will chase us out as they did during the 2019 riots. How can we be called Corona Virus? We are not even allowed to collect water from the same municipality water taps. We are told to go elsewhere.”
14 April 2020: Rangoli Chandel and controversy fit together like a hand in a glove. In the wake of the Tablighi Jamaat congregation held in Delhi being tagged a
On 15 April 2020, Babita Phogat had taken to Twitter to say that coronavirus was only India’s second biggest problem, and “ignorant Jamaatis” were its biggest cause of concern. A few weeks ago, she also posted about “ignorant Muslim pigs”, who, she claimed, were spreading coronavirus and used the hashtag #NizamuddinIdiots. As the controversy grew, the hashtag #SuspendBabitaPhogat began trending after Twitter users accused Phogat of posting communal and divisive tweets. Calls to suspend Phogat’s Twitter handle come a day after the micro-blogging site suspended the account of actress Kangana Ranaut’s sister Rangoli Chandel.
15 April 2020: The coronavirus patients and suspected cases at Ahmedabad Civil Hospital, where 1,200 beds have been set aside for COVID-19, have been segregated into wards depending on their faith. While Medical Superintendent Dr Gunvant H Rathod said a ward for Hindu patients and another for Muslim patients had been created as per a State government's decision, Deputy Chief Minister and Health Minister Nitin Patel denied any knowledge of it. Dr Rathod said, “Generally, there are separate wards for male and female patients. But here, we have made separate wards for Hindu and Muslim patients.” On being asked the reason for such a segregation, Dr Rathod said, “It is a decision of the government and you can ask them.” As per hospitalization protocol, a suspected COVID-19 case is kept in a separate ward from those confirmed, as long as the test results are pending. As many as 150 of the 186 people admitted in the hospital for coronavirus are positive. According to sources in the hospital, at least 40 of the 150 are Muslims. A patient told: “On Sunday night, the names of 28 men admitted in the first ward (A-4) were called out. We were then shifted to another ward (C-4). While we were not told why we were being shifted, all the names that were called out belonged to one community. We spoke to one staff member in our ward today, and he said this had been done for ‘the comfort of both communities’.” According to a doctor quoted in another report by The Hindu newspaper,
14 April 2020: Sadiq stood at the Sansarpur Terrace border check post from where he has regularly crossed over to Himachal Pradesh from Hoshiarpur in Punjab for over a decade to supply milk to his long-time customers. But the Himachal policeman, who was standing at the check post with an entry register in his hand, denied him permission to cross over, shaking his head in warning. One could be forgiven for thinking that Sadiq and fellow Gujjar Yaqub Ali were not being allowed to cross over because Himachal, like the rest of the country, was in a state of lockdown. However, that did not explain why the policeman was allowing non-Muslims to cross over to the Himachal side to sell vegetables and milk but denying permission to the Muslim Gujjars to do so. When it was pointed out, the policeman replied, “You better talk to the chowki in-charge, I will give you his number.” Seeing that this correspondent was taking photographs, a look of annoyance crossed his face. “Don’t click any  pictures here, we are on duty,”  he said testily. After  entering the details of our vehicle in his register, the policeman waved us on.  At the chowki (police station) a kilometre ahead,  the conversation with assistant sub-inspector(ASI) Sanjeev Kumar proceeded smoothly until he was asked why they were allowing non-Muslims to cross over but holding Muslim Gujjars back. Kumar replied:  “There’s a  lot of tension in the area”. Then Kumar put the onus on the tehsildar (revenue officer) of  Dehra, saying that “all  milk vendors need written permission” from the tehsildar. When contacted, Dehra tehsildar Amit Rana, he said he was issuing passes only to the local milk vendors of Himachal. ”You can ask the police, we are not stopping anyone,” he said. Rana  refuted  ASI Kumar’s version that milk vendors from  Punjab  needed his permission to move into  Himachal territory. “We give permission to  our  milkmen. You better ask the police why they are stopping milk vendors from Punjab,” he said.
13 April 2020: Family of Salahuddin was attacked when a group of men entered his house and started to search for his son who studies in Deoband but wasn't able to come home due to the lockdown. Unable to find any signs of him in the house, they started beating up the family members and ransacked the furniture. Their car which was standing inside was also attacked and saw it windows broken. The perpetrators had suspected that Salahuddin's son was coming from the Nizamuddin Event in New Delhi which had created an uproar in the media. Police was late in arriving at the spot but have taken a complaint from the family and are investigating the matter.
11 April 2020: Five vegetable sellers in Uttar Pradesh's Mahoba district have submitted a written complaint to the authorities that they were abused and stopped from selling their goods by a group because they were Muslims. One of the vendors told that the group accused them of spreading coronavirus and said they were members of Tablighi Jamaat -- an Islamic sect linked to COVID-19 cases across the country. The vendors in their complaint said they had gone to some villages to sell vegetables on April 11. Scores of people were buying from them, they allege, when a group of men asked the buyers not to purchase vegetables as they were Muslims. The sellers were abused, and asked to leave the village, they said.
11 April 2020, Mumbai: Migrant workers, who are all Muslim, belong to different districts in West Bengal. Many migrated to Mumbai over a decade ago and have been working at different garments units for a meager payment of Rs 350-500 for over 12-14 hours of work. Laborers said since they spoke Bengali and belonged to the Muslim community, they were always looked at with suspicion and had become easy targets of the local political and police ire as being a Bangladeshi infiltrator. Mosibur Shaikh said that each time the labourers lined up for food, they were told that the food was not for them. “The food is clearly organised for those in need but we are not counted in them. We are driven away after being told that we are “outsiders”. When one of us argued and demanded that food be made available to all, someone in the crowd called us Bangladeshis. We retreated immediately,” said Mosibur and claimed that the police too had been particularly harsh and had caned people who had queued up for food. Abdul Shaikh, a young labourer from Birbhum in West Bengal said that it was not the hunger that had been bothering him as much but the humiliation that he and his co-workers were made to endure. “Hum kamaate the aur hum khaate they, kissi ke saamne haath nahi failaaya kabhi. Lekin aaj who bhi karna padh raha hai (We earned and we ate, we never had to beg before anyone. But today we have to do that too),” Shaikh said. Since the countrywide lockdown was announced on March 21, the workers here have not been paid. “For a few days, our employers gave us some pocket money and, on some days, arranged for a one-time meal, but that too has stopped. We have absolutely no money left with us,” says Tahir Shaikh.
Several Facebook and Twitter users shared a 45-second video of a vegetable vendor beaten up by Bajrang Dal worker Parveen Babbar, who is accompanied by at least three other persons. He asks the vendor for an identity card and his name. The vendor responded that he does not have an ID card at the moment and his name is Mohammad Saleem. Thereafter, Saleem was abused and hit with a stick. Parveen Babbar while hitting Saleem said, “You people are doing jihad.” All the men in the video, including Saleem, are wearing masks. MLA Somnath Bharti took to Twitter asking for the arrest of the perpetrator to which DCP South East Delhi responded saying, “Cognizance of the incident has already been taken.FIR has been #registered under appropriate sections of law & the perpetrator of crime has been #arrested.Such incidents shall not be tolerated at any cost & law will take its own course against such persons. @DelhiPolice”. TAn enquiry was made after identifying that the bike in the videowhich belonged to Sudhanshu from Molarband, New Delhi. Sudhanshu informed that this incident happened at Tajpur Road and he identified the man who hit the vegetable seller as Praveen Babbar, resident of Badarpur. Babbar has been arrested and an FIR has been filed.
11 April 2020: Three Kashmiri laborers attacked in Barot village in the Mandi district of Himachal Pradesh by a group of unidentified locals apparently fearful of the coronavirus are anxious to return home as they continue to fear for their safety. The three Kashmiri laborers – among a group of nine Gujjars from Banihal who had come to Barot to work on a transmission tower in November – claimed that they were subjected to an unprovoked attack at their place of residence. Assailants also hurled obscenities and warned them to leave the place or bear the consequences, claimed 60-year-old Abdullah. Even after attacking the laborers with cricket bats, the men allegedly followed them to the government hospital and threatened them while calling them “aatankwadi (terrorists)”. “They hate us because we are Muslims,” said Bahaardeen Naik, a 32-year-old victim, who sustained injuries in his arm. Abdullah, who was severely beaten, is bedridden as a result. “I cannot work now, I feel like I am crippled,” he said. On April 11, at around 10:30 pm, Naik and eight other workers  were sleeping in two separate rooms when the men broke into their house and attacked them. “They started thrashing us without telling us the reason,” Naik said. “I tried to escape and ran out crying for help, while others were struggling to get rid of them,” he said. The accused got bail within 24 hours of the incident.
On 10th of April 2020 three men in an auto rickshaw with quarantine seals on their hands,   entered K.R. Pet in Mandya district  through Thendekere checkpoint. All the three, were Hindus. A member of Kailancha grama panchayat  hired an elderly man  to beat  drums and make  announcements to the public in alerting the villagers against allowing Muslims to enter the village following the Covid-19 breakout. In a video which has since gone viral, a man is seen beating a drum and saying, “Listen everyone! The Gram panchayat (local village administration) is making this announcement. No Muslims (Sahibs) should come into the village. No one should work for Muslims. If you do, you should pay a fine of Rs 500 to Rs 1000.” This led the  local police to register a case against the two persons both from Ankanahalli of neighbouring Ramanagaram district.
A security guard accused of infecting three of a family in Delhi's Defence Colony has tested negative for COVID-19. The three were being treated at Max Hospital, Saket. An elderly man in his 80s died on Wednesday and his son is on the ventilator. The man's wife has recovered and has been discharged. The family had blamed their security guard, accusing him of visiting the Tablighi Jamaat gathering last month, which emerged as a major virus hotspot linked to cases across the country. But the guard's test report, is negative. The test was conducted by RML hospital on 11 April, but days later, an officer at the Defence Colony police station said the report was still awaited. Based on the family's accusations, the guard  was charged by the police. The police had claimed that his mobile phone records had placed him in the Nizamuddin area. The Tablighi Jamaat centre where the gathering was held, Markaz Nizamuddin, is also in the area. They had put up a notice in the upscale colony, naming the guard and warning residents that he may have visited the Tablighi gathering and was missing. WhatsApp messages were also sent. In the past week, however, there was no news on whether the guard had tested positive for coronavirus. Reports said he had been tracked down by the police and quarantined. Some even claimed he was missing.The guard said that he was not on the run but had been quarantined in his one-room dwelling in Okhla. His landlord has received a call from RML Hospital that his COVID test report was negative.
8 April 2020: Talking to Times of India, the 55-year-old shopkeeper Gayur Hasan said,
7 April 2020: A few men threatened Muslim fruit vendors and told them to shut their shops. According to locals, Hindu vendors weren’t threatened in the same manner. A video of the incident went viral on social media. The men reportedly said that the Muslim fruit vendors could lead to the spread of the virus and that’s why they were told to go away. The Uttarakhand Police claims that a case has been registered in Nainital and promised that action will be taken. Six people have been booked in connection with the incident.
7 April 2020: A letter addressed to state health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on contributory donations by some members of Foreigners’ Tribunals to the Assam Arogya Nidhi to – for COVID-19 treatment – allegedly said that “their help may not be extended to members of violators Tablighi Jamaat”. An alleged ‘statement’ in the letter calls out the members of the Tablighi Jamaat as ‘Jahil’ and ‘Jihadi’. The ‘letter’, which was circulating on social media platforms especially WhatsApp, has sent social activists and rights’ bodies into a tizzy because of its ‘communal intent’ and ‘incendiary’ language. The letter proves, they argue, the kind of communal mindset people have to encounter when they are forced to prove their citizenship in front of these Foreigners’ Tribunals. The letter is dated April 7, and the letterhead says ‘Government of Assam, Office of the Member Foreigners’ Tribunal, Baksa district at Tamulpur’. The names of 12 FT members, along with their donation amounts, are mentioned. He later apologized for making such a communal request by asking the officials not to spend the money on the Tablighi Jamaat attendees.  In his clarification, the Tribunal member stated, “I never wanted to disturb the social and communal harmony of the State and the country. During my dispensation of work, as per recent records available with me, 9 proceedees belonging to Hindu were declared Not Forigners and 23 proceedees belonging to Muslim were declared as Not Foreigners. So I have never done anything on communal basis.” He further said, “I beg apology from the concerned effected persons and assure all of not doing anything from communal angle. I also beg pardon from my colleague. Members, Attached Members and Staffs who felt embarrassed due to the above draft letter. I did not show to the Members any draft and did not take their consent.”
A resident of Bawana who attended the Tablighi Jamat event in New Delhi was lynched by the residents of his area when he came back. On his arrival at his residence, 3-4 people took him to nearby fields and beat him up with sticks. The Police came and dispersed everyone. Separate FIRs were registered against the perpetrators and the victim. The victim was earlier tested by Police personnel at the State border but released when no symptoms were found.
Four people were arrested for attacking their Muslim neighbors who did not participate in the 9 minute lights program as mentioned by the Prime Minister. The complainant told the police that he and his brothers were at home in Thathrath village when their neighbors used objectionable language against them.
A Muslim family in Manohar Nagar, Gurugram filed a police complaint, alleging that they were physically assaulted after they participated in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's call to turn of lights for nine minutes on Sunday and light candles or diyas, expressing resolve to collectively fight COVID-19. According to the complaint, the accused arrived at the victim's doorstep chanting 'Bharat Mata Ki Jai' and asked them not to participate in the activity or take videos.
On 6 April 2020 residents of a village in Bagalakote(Karnataka) humiliated members of the Muslim community, who had gone to the banks of the Krishna river to fish. A video of the incident went viral on social media on Monday. Around 10 to 15 residents of Bidari village in Rabkavi Banahatti taluk in Bagalakote can be seen holding wooden sticks and iron rods, while heckling three Muslim men. The three men wearing traditional Islamic Kurta Pajama and Skull Cap can be seen folding their hands and begging for mercy, while the village residents kick them and shoo them away with the wooden sticks. “Don’t touch them. They are the ones spreading the disease,” one of the men can be heard saying.
The Saharanpur Police have put out a statement refuting media reports that members of the Tablighi Jamaat asked for non-vegetarian food and defecated in the open inside a quarantine facility in Uttar Pradesh’s Saharanpur. The claim appeared on the front page of the national daily Amar Ujala on April 5, 2020. It was also shared on the paper’s official page on Facebook, where it received more than 4,000 likes and shares. “After Uttar Pradesh’s Bijnor, a new case of Jamaatis has also come to light in Saharanpur. When they did not get non-vegetarian food, the Jamaatis here threw away the food and defecated in the open,” claimed the Amar Ujala report. The report cited a similar incident that it alleged had happened at a quarantine facility in Bijnor. It cites Sub Divisional Magistrate SN Sharma as the source of the information. “SDM SN Sharma, SMI Irfan Ahmed, along with other police officers, arrived at the facility and pacified the Jamaatis. They were told clearly that only food prescribed by the government will be served. If they repeat their behaviour, strict legal action will be taken.” A local media outlet, News 1 India, picked up the Saharanpur story and shared it on Twitter, adding that it was mutton biryani that members of the Tablighi Jamaat desired. The Saharanpur Police used its official Twitter account to reply to the tweet with a statement that the claims of the media outlets were investigated and found to be “wrong and untrue”.
Several truckers, belonging to the Muslim community, were allegedly beaten up in Arunachal Pradesh, following which they fled to neighbouring Assam, leaving their vehicles behind, officials said. In a letter to the Kurung Kumey deputy commissioner, District Food & Civil Supplies Officer Chukhu Jirjo said the truckers, who unloaded rice at Koloriang, were beaten up by a group of men on Saturday at a place between Sangram and Palin in Kra Daadi district. Their trucks were also damaged in the attack, following which they left the vehicles behind and fled to Assam, the letter said. Jirjo urged the deputy commissioner to take up the matter with the DCs of Kra Daadi and Lower Subansiri districts to ensure the safety of truck drivers and their helpers, without whom transportation of essential commodities would be affected. Sangha Tagik, the chairman of the Parsi-Parlo-based Tani Taw Multipurpose Cooperative Society and a wholesale dealer of PDS items, alleged that Muslim workers were being chased away, forcing them to flee to Assam. When contacted, Chief Secretary Naresh Kumar and Inspector General of Police Chukhu Appa expressed concern over the matter and said the DCs and superintendents of police of the respective districts have been asked to take action immediately.
Gurugram police have nabbed four persons for firing at a mosque in Dhankot village. The accused confessed of being disturbed by the Covid -19 spread through and eventual evacuation of members of the Tablighi Jamaat from the mosque. They claimed that they wanted to save any further threat to the city and had gone to check if anyone was hiding in the mosque and fired as they could not open the door.  The Police had evacuated the mosque of a group of Tablighi Jamaat members five days earlier, quarantining them, as part of a series of raids across the state.
5 April 2020: Prime Minister Narendra Modi had asked people of the country to shut off their lights for nine minutes at 9 pm on Sunday 5th April 2020 and light candles instead. A mob of men allegedly attacked two mosques in Belagavi district. Two separate cases have been registered in the district in connection with the attacks. Belagavi police say that the mosques were attacked by miscreants as the lights were on at 9 pm, 5 April 2020.  The men allegedly barged into the mosque and heckled the imam, who was cleaning up the space.   Nine people were arrested by the Yamkanmardi Police. “These men attacked the mosque and tried to shut it down. They kept saying that the whole country is switching off the lights and lighting candles and that members in the mosque too must follow the same. They have been arrested now,” the Yamkanmardi Police said.  Meanwhile, the Sadalaga Police arrested 13 people for allegedly attacking another mosque in the area. The men allegedly barged into the mosque and demanded that the lights be turned off.
5 April 2020: Dilshad Muhamud , a resident of Una district in Himachal Pradesh committed suicide after being taunted by his village fellow men for coming in contact with two Tablighi  Jamaat members. The villagers of Banagarh accused Dilshad of being the main cause of spreading novel coronavirus even after being tested negative by the local hospital. He was both socially and economically boycotted which mentally disturbed him, post which he committed suicide.  Dilshad’s wife said that despite the fact that her husband tested negative for coronavirus, some villagers were out to demonise the family. They had also stopped taking milk from their family, which was their only source of income. She maintained that her husband had never visited Delhi and had stayed at home, but was still harassed, The Tribune reported.
5 April 2020, Delhi: “We will not let any Muslim enter our lanes,” a man, who is also shooting the video on his phone can be heard saying. He is a part of a group of men sitting in a tight circle on a public road that runs through their colony of Shastri Nagar. The group is specially checking each vendor as they pass by, asking their names, seeking Aadhaar cards, and warning the ones they suspect of being Muslim against entering the colony. The video, posted on Facebook has also asked everyone else in the city to follow them and not allow Muslims to enter their neighborhoods. “Request you all not to let any Musalmaan enter your lanes. Ask their names, and if he is a Musalmaan chase them away. They are spreading a mess,” says the man. He then starts harassing an innocent vendor passing by demanding that he returns with his identification papers the next day, “else we will not let you enter this lane, understood?” The scared vendor identifies himself as a Yadav and is told to bring his Aadhaar card as proof. Another is told to get lost from the neighborhood and also return with an Aadhaar card. “Else do not come here, you will get beaten with sticks otherwise,” threatens the man making the hate video. He proudly shares how he “caught'' a vendor who called himself Misra, but “turned out to be Muhhamed Imran. We beat him up and chased him away” he repeats his ‘request’ that others follow his violent example. The local residents claimed initially that they had sought to place a blanket ban on Muslim vendors; however, later it was decided that only known vegetable and street vendors would be allowed to enter the neighborhood.
4 April 2020, Mumbai: MNS Chief Raj Thackeray in a meeting on Saturday said
A doctor in Bharatpur refused to treat a pregnant Muslim woman in urgent need of help, following which she lost her baby. Irfan Khan, husband of Parveena said that his wife was in a critical condition when he took her to the district hospital in Bharatpur.
A Shiv Sena (Punjab) leader was booked for giving a provocative speech against those who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi. “He made a speech in Facebook video advocating violence. Users commenting on the video were also spreading hate. There was a danger that his speech could hurt to communal harmony of state,” said DSP Jandiala Gurinderbir Singh. He added “Soori was protected by 12 policemen from Amritsar City Police and nine police men from Amritsar (Rural) Police. We have registered case against him and sent him to jail.” Soori had deleted his video before being caught.
4 April 2020: In Bengaluru, more than one incident of activists arranging and delivering food for migrant worker communities being harassed allegedly by BJP/ RSS activists has come to light.   Zareen Taj, an activist working in Amruthahalli area in north Bengaluru said she was surrounded by more than 20 RSS workers on Saturday evening. “They said ‘who gave you permission to give food? You are a Muslim, you guys mix poison and spit on food before distributing. Have you guys come from Nizamuddin and want to spread the disease to everyone?’ They also went to meet my landlord and asked him why he rented us a room knowing that we are Muslims. They said ‘Go to Shivajinagar or RK Hegde Nagar, we don’t need help from Muslims, thank god we have enough’,” she said. Ms. Taj said four of her family members (including her son and three brothers) and her son’s friend have been injured. According to 23-year-old Syed Tabrez who is the complainant, he and five others including Kiran, Junaid, Riyaz, Feroz and Amjad were also attacked. They were carrying cricket bats and started beating them up. Bangalore Mirror quoted Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Bhimashankar S Guled as denying that the attack was communal in nature. However, activists speaking with TheNewsMinute on condition of anonymity, alleged that the police were protecting the interests of the ruling party of the state. An activist alleged, “Even though the men who are arrested were acting at the behest of a local BJP leader named Venkatesh, the police refused to name him in the FIR (First Information Report)”.  The activists had also met with City Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao on Tuesday.
Delhi: The Delhi Minorities Commission on Saturday claimed, through a notice sent to Commissioner of Delhi police, that a mosque was attacked and burnt in Alipur in North West Delhi on Friday night. It has also issued a separate notice to the commissioner claiming that Muslim boys are being randomly arrested for the February violence in Northeast Delhi. In a notice issued on the Commissioner of Delhi police today, the chairman of the panel, Zafar-ul Islam Khan stated that the Commission has received a report and a video which says that at around 8 pm on April 3, around 200 people attacked a mosque in Mukhmelpur village under the Alipur police station in North West Delhi while there were two or three persons inside. The notice said the mob attacked the mosque, ransacked it, burnt it partially and demolished some of its parts, including the roof. The attacker were allegedly shouting that the spread of Coronavirus cannot be stopped until all the mosques were not demolished a local Urdu news daily Inquilab reported. It further said that it was unbelievable that this could happen in the national capital. “The issue cannot be patched up artificially by arranging a compromise where a religious place has been ransacked and partially burnt and demolished. If no proper legal action is taken, this lawlessness will become common,” the Commission cautioned.
Delhi Minorities Commission has taken strong offence to the use of hate speech against the Muslim community by a number of Delhi University teachers following the detection of coronavirus cases among a large number of people who had attended an event at Nizamuddin. The chairman of the Commission, Zafar-ul Islam Khan, has issued a notice to the Vice-Chancellor of the Delhi University and urged him to constitute an inquiry committee to look at hate posts and take necessary action against teachers making them. The panel expressed surprise that some teachers were “spewing venom against the Muslim community saying that they should be put in gas chambers and that doctors should not treat them, etc.” It added, “We find this very disturbing that such elements should be ‘teaching’ in a prestigious university like yours.”
A message that went viral as it were called for the social and economic boycott of Muslims. The message accused Tablighis of gathering 2,500 Covid-positive Muslims and sending them across the country to spread the disease. It warned people from purchasing vegetables or fruits from the minorities “as they are carrying out jihad of spreading coronavirus” and to spread the message across. The state government has now filed cases and arrested seven persons for these hate messages. The police said the accused, some also booked under the Disaster Management Act, are residents of Navsari Jamnagar, Amreli, Anand and Kutch districts. Their ages vary from 27 to 70 years. The Indian Express, quoting official sources reported, “In Amreli Riken Singhav, a 27-year-old employee of a private firm, was arrested. Om Navsari, the accused have been identified as Umakant Rathod(50) and Ratilal patel (70).” The newspaper further reported, “Both were released on bail on Friday. The others who have been arrested are Paras Vala (39), a driver and Jayanti Giri (51) a businessman, in Jamnagar.”
24 March 2020, Mumbai: In a first during the state lockdown of Maharashtra due to Covid-19, a masjid saw stones pelted at it after Isha prayers. Those throwing stones said that they were doing so because prayers in congregation were going on in masjid's whereas no such activity was allowed in temples. The fighting went on to such an extent that Police had to fire five rounds of ammunition in order to diffuse the crowd after which the whole area was barricaded. Vehicles around the masjid were burnt after which a curfew was imposed for two days in the area. It has to be noted that the Govt. had issued a lockdown before the congregation took place and this was seen as a defiance of that order. Five people were injured in the process.
12 March 2020: A young mother and her two children were staring at her husband as he lay unconscious after a mob of 60 villagers in eastern India had stormed their home and beaten him with wooden sticks. “The children and I tried to wake him up – we thought he had fainted – but there was no response,” Bhimeshwari Sodi told. “We cried out for help, but there was nobody to help us. The neighbors said that he was dead.” The animist mob, worshipers of the gods of their tribal religion, beat 30-year-old Kama Sodi unconscious in Odisha state’s Kodalmetla village, Malkangiri District on the morning of March 12, she said. They had first attacked him the night before, surrounding his house as he, his wife and children were praying as they would before bed, Bhimeshwari Sodi said. Before the attack that night, the hard-line animists had shouted at the family that they would kill them, she said. “I was able to protect my two small children from their beatings, but my husband was in their clutches,” the 26-year-old Sodi said. “They were beating him very brutally.” Her children are ages 3 and 6. Sodi pleaded with the assailants to stop and cried for help, but they continued beating him, vowing that they would kill him, she said. “Even while suffering in their hands, my husband refused to give up his faith,” Sodi told. “They declared that they would allow a chance for him to live if he declared that he had renounced Christ. But my husband declined their offer and chose to suffer.” During the second attack the morning of March 12, she screamed at the assailants that he would die if they didn’t stop, she said. “They had beaten him very badly once again,” Sodi said. “They went on until they were sure that he shattered on the floor and stopped responding.” The assailants threw the family’s food grains and belongings outside and told them to leave the village, she said. Christian leaders arrived to find Sodi still lying unconscious, area pastor Timuthiyus Elijah told. “The children and his wife sat around him weeping,” Pastor Elijah said. Pastors from Erbanpally’s New Bethesda Jesus Christ Tribal Ministries arranged for Kama Sodi to be taken to Malkangiri Government Hospital, he said. Doctors told Bhimeshwari Sodi that her husband had suffered severe blows to the head and had fallen into a coma, and that they were unsure when he would regain consciousness, she said. “By God’s grace, he regained consciousness after nearly one and a half days,” she told. “But the doctors insisted that he must be hospitalized for at least a week.” Doctors told her he had blood clots in his brain, would need extra care at home and should not return to work until he fully recovered, she said. Sodi said she spent her last 2,000 rupees (US$26) on medicines and enough food to feed the children for the week they spent at the hospital. She had hoped to work extra hours at others’ fields to sustain the family while he recovered, but soon after his release from the hospital, the government announced a lockdown on March 22 to contain the novel coronavirus, she said. “By the time we reached home, most of our belongings which the assailants had thrown outside our home were missing,” Sodi said. “Mud had piled up on food grains they threw out.” The small plot of land yields 20 to 30 bags of food grains, and what they are unable to sell they store as food for the remainder of the year, she said. Now those grains are gone, and villagers are ostracizing them economically, she said. “Nobody wants to offer us work, and we are happy with whatever God provides us,” Sodi said. “I’m washing the mud off the few food grains I could gather from the floor and am cooking them for the children. My husband and I are having whatever leftovers there are once a day. The rest of the time, we would prefer to starve. If the children eat and go to sleep, we would be contented in that.” Village women try to stop her from drawing water at the common bore-well, she said. “They throw my pots aside and fill theirs first,” Sodi said. “Yet I would stand there patiently for all of them to draw water. The women would look at me, spit and turn their faces aside when I pass by. They hate us.”
It has been reported by activists post the Delhi pogrom of 2020 that a large number of Muslim youths have been randomly picked up from the streets and houses for their  alleged involvement. Residents have claimed that police has been detaining, close to 5-6 youngsters from every area. They have been coercing them to accept that they committed acts of violence. The victims family members have been mostly frequenting the Dayalpur Police Station.  Moreover, it has also been reported that denial of legal access over extended periods is a common feature in all the testimonies.
08 March 2020 Ayodhya: In the run-up to Holi, many music videos encouraging Hindu men to put color on Muslim women this Holi were going viral on social media platforms. A song by Sandeep Acharya who calls himself an Hinduvadi target Muslim woman saying “Chaahe naqaab pehan ke niklo bhaijaan ke sath, ragad ke rang lagega suno mohtarma seedhi baat” (Even if you go out in a veil with your brother, colors will be thrown at you. Just listen to this simple thing),” The song has spread like wildfire on popular social media apps including WhatsApp, TikTok, and Facebook by thousands of people with Islamophobic and misogynistic captions. In a second video, a Hindu can be seen groping Muslim women and forcefully putting color on her while the same song plays in the background. Songs compress Bollywood clips to dance beats — with added lyrics that openly call for the slaughter of Muslims, are amassing huge numbers of views on YouTube and other social media platforms.
The Uttar Pradesh  police have put up several hoardings across Lucknow identifying those accused of violence during the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act in December.The names, photographs and residential addresses of the accused are listed in the hoardings, causing havoc among those mentioned in the list.They have been asked to pay for the damage to public and private property within a stipulated time or have their properties seized by the district administration of the State Government.
A petrol bomb was hurled at a Hidayathul Sunnath Jamath Mosque  in Vedambal Nagar, Coimbatore at around 1 AM by  miscreants. This act was a retaliation against the attack on Hindu Munnani leader of Coimbatore, District Secretary Madukkarai Anand , who was attacked after his participation in a Pro-CAA protest. In this communal tension one Mr Mohammed Khani was also attacked by Right Wing Hindutva groups. However, two individuals have been arrested in connection with the communal flare. They owe their allegiance to Vishwa Hindu Parishad and the Bhartiya Janta Party. According to a statement by the Coimbatore Police, the accused also reportedly told the Police that they were planning to create more chaos.
2 March 2020 Guwahati: Unidentified miscreants on Sunday night vandalised a mosque in western Assam’s Baksa district and burnt several Islamic holy books, including the Quran. Baksa is one of the four districts under the politically volatile Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) where elections are due in
2 March 2020 Coimbatore: A recent tweet that went viral on Twitter had pictures of a man serving biriyani followed by pictures of medicines. The accompanying text by Twitter user RD Singh (@RD_BANA) was Islamophobic and false in nature, spreading misinformation that a shop in Coimbatore was serving separate biriyani to Hindus laced with drugs that would make one impotent. “Biryani is cooked in separate vessels for Muslims and Hindus. The Biryani for Hindus is laced with tablets that makes one impotent. Restaurant in Coimbatore called Masha Allah of Rehman Bismillah was caught selling such Biryani. Beware! They’re getting at you in every possible way,” the tweet read.
1 Mar 2020 Jhajjar: 20-odd Muslim families living in Isharhedi village of Jhajjar district on Delhi-Haryana border are gripped in intense fear after a mob entered forcefully into the house and asked community members to vacate the area before Holi or be ready to face consequences. According to TOI, An FIR had been lodged at Bahadurgarh police station, the complainant has told that 60-70 people belonging to 20-35 age group came to the colony on February 29 and asked them to vacate their houses before Holi or face consequences for not doing so. None of the family members have gone to work, fearing backlash from the youths. Another member of the community who works as mason and has been residing in the area for last 10 years, said he was originally from Bihar but had moved here to earn his livelihood. A carpenter belonging to the area told TOI that they are living in fear after the incident. “He told the minor members from our families are sent to other places like Delhi. The board examinations of children within the family are about to start, and they fear that they might miss the exams due to the situation.” he added.
1 March 2020 Kolkata: Three workers of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have been arrested after a complaint was registered at New Market Police Station against them for raising incendiary 'desh ke ghaddaron ko...’ slogans in Esplanade area in Kolkata. The BJP workers shouted the slogan while they were passing the Maidan Market in Esplanade on their way to a rally of Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday. However, the West Bengal BJP has denied the involvement of any party worker in the incident and termed it as the
29 Feb 2020 Delhi: A group of people broke out into chants of “desh ke gaddaron ko, goli maaro saalon ko” (“shoot the traitors”) in the heart of Delhi inside the Rajiv Chowk metro station on Saturday morning. The slogan has become a popular war-cry used by Hindutva groups and the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party to threaten violence against anti-government protestors, including those who have been opposing the Citizenship Amendment Act and the National Register of Citizens across India. Saxena, who was having coffee when he heard the slogans, told Scroll.in: “There were about 10 people in the group”. They stood near the platform where blue line trains depart for Noida.
A mosque near was allegedly attacked early in the morning near Shajahanabad Apartments in Sector 11 in Dwarka in south-west Delhi. There were two people present in the mosque at the time – Imam Rashid and Imam Abdul Mannan. According to them, the attackers chanted “Jai Shri Ram” after throwing stones. The security guard Chaman was present too, and testifies to the sequence of events. However, DCP Dwarka later tweeted that the incident never happened. Residents allege that the police wants to downplay the incident and tried to get the broken glass mended on Friday morning itself. But the residents said it should be done only after Juma prayers on Friday afternoon.
On 28 February 2020, several social media users shared a 20-second video of a building engulfed in fire. The viral message blamed “Islamic jihad” for the incident and claimed that this occurred in Paris. “After burning India’s capital, the terrorist community has burnt the French capital as well. #IslamicJihad Now tell did the riots happen because of @KapilMishra_IND’s speech. There is only one solution #EconomicBoycott,” reads the message.  [Translated from ???????? ??? ?? ???? ?? ??????? ????? ?? ??? ?????? ?? ??????? ????? ??? ?? ? #IslamicJihad ?? ???? @KapilMishra_IND ?? ?? ??????? ??? ?? ???? ???? ?? ?? ??? ???? ???? ?????! ?? ?? ???? #??????_????????] Twitter user @Satynistha posted the viral video (archive link). It was quote-tweeted (archive link) by Suresh Chavhanke, editor-in-chief, Sudarshan News and the host of ‘Bindas Bol’. Chavhanke’s tweet has been retweeted over 3,700 times and @Satynistha’s video has gained over 40,000 views.
The three days of mayhem in North East Delhi starting on 24 February included 14 mosques and a Sufi Dargah being burnt by Hindutva vigilantes. All of the are located in an area of less than 10 sq km. Muslim homes and businesses have also been decimated in this pogrom. Masjids and Shrines burnt are Madina Masjid (Shiv Vihar), Auliya Masjid (Shiv Vihar), Tayyaba Masjid (Shiv Vihar Phase 3), Maula Baksh Masjid (Ashok Nagar), Chand Masjid (Ashok Nagar), Mubarak Masjid (Garhi Mendu), Gamri Masjid (Gamri), Meena Masjid (Bhagirati Vihar), Madina Masjid (Milan Gardens), Allahwali Masjid (Mukund Nagar), Jannati Masjid (Gokalpuri), Tyre Market Masjid (Gokalpuri), Fatima Masjid (Galli No 29, Shehrpur Chowk), Farooqia Masjid (Brijpuri). Two people were shot, namely Hussain, a 28-year-old resident of Babarpur, working as a labourer was shot in the chest at Vijay Park and Shahid Khan Alvi, aged 22 years and working as an auto-rickshaw driver.
Several Hindu and Muslim residents of Northeast Delhi remained in the grips of fear even as the riots subsided Wednesday, with many packing their bags for 'safer places'. However, there were others who cited the local tradition of harmony and refused to believe the violence was the handiwork of their neighbors. At least 24 people were killed in the three days of rioting that tore through this part of the capital following clashes over the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) that erupted Sunday. Over 150 others were injured in the communal frenzy, which saw mobs attack journalists, vandalise religious places and set fire to cars, shops and homes. Left anxious by the “simmering tensions” between the two communities, some daily-wage labourers and rickshaw-pullers also said they would leave Delhi and go back to their homes in UP and Bihar.
25 Feb 2020 New Delhi: A mosque in Ashok Nagar was set on fire today afternoon. A mob shouting “Jai Shri Ram” and “Hinduon ka Hindustan” paraded around the burning mosque, and a Hanuman flag was placed on the minaret of the masjid. Shops near the masjid were being looted, with locals describing the looters as 'outsiders'. Shops within and around the masjid’s compound, including a footwear shop, were looted. Locals told The Wire that the looters were not residents of the area, which is predominantly Hindu but has few Muslim families. Though there were firefighters present at the site, the police could not be seen.
25 Feb 2020 Delhi: Six hours after a 14-year-old Muslim boy was allegedly shot at by Hindutva supporters of the Citizenship Amendment Act in the Kardam Puri locality of Shahdara, no ambulance had reached him. The Wire‘s reporters found him slumped on his stomach, with locals attempting to offer relief with preliminary care. An ambulance eventually did reach the boy at around 5 pm. He has been admitted to a hospital. The boy, identified as Faizan, had not been a part of protests or clashes but had been in the area to drop off some items to an acquaintance. Witnesses at the scene said it was supporters of the CAA who had come in from the Yamuna Vihar area, that lies to the immediate west of Kardam Puri, who shot Faizan. The boy, whose mother passed away recently and whose father works in Rampur, lives with his grandmother. Speaking to The Wire, the grandmother said she was extremely scared under the current scenario and had strongly told Faizan not to venture out.
25 Feb 2020 Delhi: Salmani received a call from his younger son. An armed mob of around 100 people had entered their lane in Gamri extension, around 1.5 km from Khajuri Khas in Delhi, and were setting shops and houses on fire. Their four-storey house, too, had been torched, and his family had sought refuge on the roof. When Salmani ran towards his lane, people from neighbouring lanes restrained him. “They told me it was too dangerous, I could be killed, and I should just wait because what’s happened has already happened,” said Salmani, a 48-year-old owner of a readymade garments business. “I was stuck for hours, thinking that my family was dead the whole time.” While most of his family survived the arson, Salmani’s mother, 85-year-old Akbari, died in the fire on the third floor of their house. The building itself was burnt, including the family’s tailoring workshops on the first two floors. Salmani claims that the mobs also looted him of Rs 8 lakh and all the family jewelry stored in the building. “I have nothing left, I am zero,” he told Scroll.in. Later that morning, at around 10.45 am, Ansari claims a large mob returned, chanting “Jai Shri Ram” and other anti-Muslim slogans, and began attacking people and homes with stones and petrol bombs. “This went on for more than two hours, during which they also broke into our Masjid, vandalised everything inside and burnt our Quran,” said Ansari. A local medical store, bakery and other establishments in the area were also set on fire, he said. “They tried to burn one Muslim man too, but he was saved by a local Hindu family,” Ansari said.
Reacting to the incidents of violence in Delhi, Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur Tuesday said those who would say ‘Bharat Mata ki Jai’ will stay in India. Responding to media queries following the first sitting of the Vidhan Sabha’s Budget Session, Thakur said, “Bharat mein Bharat Mata ki Jai karne wala rahega… aur jo nahi bolega, jo Bharat ka virodh karega, sanvidhanik vyavasthaon ka sammaan nahi karega, niraadar karega, baar baar karega, unke baare mei nischit roop se vichar karne ki aavyashakta hai (that person who says Bharat Mata ki jai will stay in India…and the one who does not say it, who will oppose India, will not respect the Constitution, will repeatedly dishonour it, there is definitely a need to think about them).”  The slogan, 'Bharat Mata ki Jai' apparently portrays India as a mother goddess. In Islamic belief, the notion of considering any other thing (be it a country, nature, a human being,etc) as God/Goddess is strictly forbidden. and it is considered as shirk(Polytheism). So, Muslims in India avoid chanting this slogan in general. But BJP leaders deliberately attempt to provoke Muslims by forcing them to chant 'Bharat Mata Ki Jai', ' Vande Matram' to prove their loyalty to India.
Feroz Akhtar, who is differently-abled, was beaten with sticks by a mob that entered a mosque while he was offering prayers in Delhi's Mustafabad. One of the riot-affected victims being treated at Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital, the 42-year-old tailor received severe injuries on his head, back and shoulder. Feroz and his son, Danish, were among many others from the locality who had rushed to a protest venue to safeguard the women who were on a sit-in in a nearby area. They were informed of the riot breaking out and rushed to a nearby mosque for shelter. It was here that an angry mob entered while they were offering prayers and started beating them.
As 2 tourists were crossing the Delhi border, an armed mob surrounded their car and questioned 'Hindu ya Mohamedan?'. It seemed like their end as they had rolled their windows down to speak to the people around and someone from the mob pulled out the car's key from ignition. Luckily, a man in his 40s snatched it from the perpetrator and threw it to them, shouting  and indicating them to leave the place. The duo sped for their lives and had to enter Delhi through Haryana in order to reach their hotel. They were unhurt but left visibly shaken.
25 Feb 2020 Delhi: The nameplate said house number 76 belonged to Mohd Anees of the BSF and also showed its insignia. But it was not enough to save them from the violence that was to be unleashed.  The mob was going one by one vandalizing and burning down each house in Khas Khajuri Gali on the afternoon of February 25. First the cars that stood outside the house were set on fire. For the next several minutes, the mob pelted stones at the house. They shouted slogans of “idhar aa Pakistani, tujhe naagarikta dete hai (Come here Pakistani, we’ll give you citizenship)” as they then threw a gas cylinder in the house to set it on fire. That Anees had spent three years in Jammu and Kashmir guarding the border after joining the BSF in 2013 was lost on them. Along with Anees, his father Mohd Munis, 55, uncle Mohd Ahmed, 59, and 18-year-old cousin Neha Parveen were in the house. Sensing what was about to go down next, they all escaped from the house, and were helped by paramilitary troops. Neha Parveen was to get married in April and Anees himself was to get married the following month. “All the things we collected all our life, jewelry – two gold necklaces, silver jewelry, it is all gone,” the family said. “We used to buy jewelry on installments… used to give money every month and collected this jewelry,” they said. Rs 3 lakh in cash for the wedding arrangements also got burnt along with other valuables and all their belongings.
25 Feb 2020 Delhi: Mohammad Anas, 12, stood out in his white kurta and skull cap inside the dark and sooty Jamiat-Ul-Huda Madrasa, which is charred beyond recognition. “We study here, why did the mob attack us?” he asked, taking us around the madrasa situated in the riot-hit locality of Mustafabad in northeast Delhi. This madrasa is inside the Faruqiya Jama Masjid from where muezzin Jalaluddin gave a call for prayers and was attacked on the night of February 25 before being taken to the hospital. No one from Jalaluddin’s family was around him as he lost touch with them. On Wednesday morning, Jalaluddin woke up at the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital with two more men lying injured on beds flanking his, but no one of his own to listen to his pain and attend to his needs. Two days after the attack on the mosque and the madrasa located on its compound, Anas can be seen jostling among the older locals, trying to make himself heard. He was inside the mosque when unidentified men barged in and assaulted Jalaluddin, the Imam and others. “I was there with 30 more children of the madrasa, we were very scared and didn’t know what to do. The men came in and we saw them beating muezzin sahib and the Imam,” said Anas. “We switched off the lights and watched silently. We didn’t speak, just said our prayers… humne dekha ki Imam sahib ko maara (we saw the Imam beaten up).”
25 Feb 2020 Delhi: Akhtar Raza, the BJP’s minority cell vice-president for the Delhi Northeast district said “They were chanting slogans with religious overtones. Around 7pm, they started throwing stones at us. I called for police help. But the police asked me to leave. We managed to flee before they burnt my house and destroyed everything,” “There are 19 houses of Muslims in this lane. All of them have been identified and burnt. The rioters were from outside. But some local residents identified the houses of Muslims,” Raza said. Six motorcycles and all the belongings in the house were burnt down, he said. A few meters away, the homes of two of Raza’s uncles were torched. Raza has been associated with the BJP for the past five years. “Nobody from the BJP contacted me (after the riots). There was no phone call. There was no relief or special treatment or anything,” Raza said. Raza had called some party leaders who were “positive”. He continues to be associated with the BJP.“I am related to the BJP. Maybe I will continue,” Raza said. Nabeel Ahmad, an auto-rickshaw driver, said he had on Sunday got his vehicle on the roads for the first time since the violence broke out on Monday. Ahmad, a resident of Mustafabad, said there were 50 temples in the locality. Not one of them has been touched. However, four mosques have been vandalised. He said the colony had come up in the past 30 years but had never before seen such communal conflict.
25 Feb 2020 Delhi: A group of at least 200 people were gathered around a Muslim cemetery armed with hammers, sickles and axes. This was just 100 metres from the Gokulpuri police station in Northeast Delhi. On one call, all of them raised their tools and struck the building’s boundary wall. The mob that demolished the boundary wall of the cemetery in Gokulpuri was then adamant to go inside and damage the graves. “Now wait and watch. They have challenged us and we will now show them their place,” one man from the mob screamed. “Jai Shri Ram,” they said, and struck again. There was not a single policeman in the vicinity to stop them. A part of the mob then ran across the road and set two shops that had ‘Khan’ written on them on fire. And still no policemen, who were clearly outnumbered, tried to stop them.
An undergarments factory belonging to Muhammad Atiq was set on fire by miscreants at Karwal Nagar, Delhi.  He has been a BJP leader, heading the minority cell of Brahmapuri Mandal in Bihar for the past 16-17 years. He claims that he was not alerted about the violence and has been ignored by the Party because he has a Muslim name.
Taking suo motu cognizance of the clashes that broke out between two communities at the Akhbarpura area of Khambhat taluka in Anand district on Sunday afternoon, police Monday filed four separate FIRs booking over 2,000 people under charges of rioting, arson and attempt to murder.  The police said that despite making announcements and warning the mob to disperse, the crowd continued to clash and pelt stones at each other, including at the policemen. Over 25 houses, shops and vehicles were burnt. A total of 13 persons were injured but no major injuries were reported. A 62-year-old resident of Akhbarpura, Yusuf Sheikh died of cardiac arrest after his shop in the neighborhood was set on fire, police said. The FIR pertaining to the violence in Akhbarpura identified 33 people as accused, while a mob of over 1,000 unidentified accused have also been booked. The police have also rounded up 46 people so far, but the official figure of the exact number of arrests is yet to be confirmed.
The Wire met with a pro-government Hindutva mob and spoke to them about the violence and their modus operandi. They agreed to talk “if the camera is not focused on our (their) face”.  The Wire reporter asked: Yesterday, a mazar (mausoleum) has also been burnt in the area. Who did it? “We don’t know who did it,” one of them said. “Maybe, the Muslims have done it themselves,” another young man said. Yet another added, “We can even give you the names of those who did; we know them very well. Okay, we will not tell you. We have burnt it (the mausoleum); we all have burnt it. Keep the camera down. Not one person has burnt (it); we all have. Why are you opposed to those opposing the CAA? the reporter asked. they answered: Our opposition is to the opposition of those against the CAA. How dare they (read Muslims) protest like this in our country? Is it (their) country? It is our country. Are they bigger goons than us? We are the bigger goons. We will show them their place, not allow them to remain (even) in their homes. Houses have been burnt, a hospital too.
24 Feb 2020 Delhi: Rubina Bano, a resident of Delhi's Chand Bagh area narrated her ordeal. In a first-person account, Bano revealed that she was mercilessly beaten up by male policemen by lathis and batons. She said she had heard about the disturbance but she had only come out of the house as she had to go to pick up her daughter from school who was appearing for her board exams. Bano was also three-months-pregnant when the incident happened. She said she was on her way to the school when she was stopped and ambushed by a group of policemen and an angry mob. Bano pleaded with the rioters and the policemen to let her go citing her pregnancy, but she said that the men seemed only
New Delhi: Close to 8:30 pm on Monday, Gokalpuri’s tyre market, located just behind the Gokalpuri metro station, was set on fire. While there is no evidence yet on who was responsible for the arson, the area is predominantly populated by shops run by Muslim business-people. The Wire witnessed cries of ‘Jai Shri Ram’ being shouted in front of the fire by a group of Hindutva supporters at the site.
As a shop was set ablaze in Delhi’s Maujpur area on Monday afternoon, a middle-aged man with a saffron tikka on his forehead repeatedly asked reporters to stop filming the arson. “Bade dinon ke baad Hindu jaaga hai,” he said. “Hindus have woken up after long.” He did not want to identify himself, other than as a supporter of the Citizenship Amendment Act. Scroll Reporter Vijeyta Lalawani said: I watched a mob set a shops owned by Muslims on fire in Delhi, chanting ‘Jai Shri Ram’
In a video widely circulated on social media (link below) shows that some injured persons lying on the street and police is forcing them to chant national anthem. Policemen can also be heard taunting them with slogans of “Azaadi,” which have become a staple at anti-CAA protests around the country. The injured, lying on the ground, can be heard singing the national anthem.
Kaushal Shroff(Journalist, Caravan Magazine): Close to 6 pm on 24 February, a small group of around ten Delhi Police constables standing near the Fahan International School in Yamuna Vihar, a predominantly Hindu neighborhood in north east Delhi, charged towards a crowd of Muslim protesters who stood across the nearby Wazirabad road. According to residents, since 11 am that day, the road had become a site of violence between a Muslim group protesting the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, and a Hindu mob that stood alongside the policemen. The Hindu rioters comprised a ragtag bunch of teenagers, young adults and older pot-bellied men, carrying iron rods, wooden planks and bricks in their hands. After at least half an hour of stone pelting, the constables and the mob charged at the Muslim protesters together, with a united cry of “Jai Shri Ram.” At around 5.30 pm, I spoke to ahead constable outside Fahan International School, who requested not to be identified. He complained bitterly about being abandoned by the senior police machinery. “We are standing here from the morning and no help has arrived yet,” he said. “These behenchods”—sister-fuckers—“have burnt everything. They have set fire to the petrol pump, they have set fire to the nearby hospital, they have burnt ambulances, cars, bikes.” It was unclear whether the Hindu or the Muslim side had set these on fire.  When I(KAUSHAL SHROFF, Journalist at Caravan Magazine) asked the head constable about the strength of the stone pelters from the other side, he claimed that they were in the thousands. “Tumhe kya lagta hai, hum yahan pe bidaak kar kyun baithe hain?”—Why do you think we are cowering here. Referring to the Hindu mob, he added, “It is good that they are here, otherwise we were done for.” But at around 6 pm, the mob and the Delhi police were bolstered by hundreds of other Hindu rioters who descended on Wazirabad road. It was unclear where they came from, but it appeared that they had broken through barricades put up at one end of the road to join the fight against the Muslim protesters.
After buying a apcket of Halwa and paratha for his children Mohammad Zubair was returning to his home, on his way he was accosted by a mob wielding wooden sticks and iron rods. He said he was beaten up viciously, even though he begged the men to stop, before the pain took over and he fell unconscious. He does not remember much about the attack, but the photograph brings up painful memories. “They beat me till they broke me. I begged them and they beat me some more, viciously. They made communally charged slurs and took (BJP leader) Kapil Mishra’s name. I don’t remember much. I just hoped my children were safe. I can’t bear to look at my photograph, my legs shiver with pain,” Zubair told The Indian Express. A father of two daughters, aged five and two, and a son aged four, Zubair feared for their safety and shifted them to his village in UP. Zubair works as a labourer and earns around Rs 15,000 a month.
Muslims in Shiv Vihar who tried returning to their Charred houses after the Delhi pogrom 2020 were threatened by local Hindus, that they will be killed if they intend to stay back. People stated that when men attempted to return to Shiv Vihar to retrieve belongings, especially their documents, they were brutally attacked.  When Muslims returned to pick up their belongings, they where jeered at by same local Hindus who had co-existed with them. A huge number of internally displaced Muslims have found their abode in Mustafabad’s relief camp, wherein their presence is being managed with great difficulty.
A group of anti-CAA protestors, who have been on a sit-in at Gandhi Park in south Delhi's Hauz Rani for the last one month, took out a march towards the main road on Sunday, 23 February 2020. However, the protesters maintained that it was peaceful.
On Sunday23 Februrary 2020, former Delhi MLA and Bharatiya Janata Party leader Kapil Mishra took out a rally against the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protest in Jaffrabad, North East Delhi. He also issued a call through Twitter urging people to gather and “prevent another Shaheen Bagh” protest from taking place near the Jaffrabad Metro Station. After three days when United States President Donald Trump leaves, Kapil Mishra said,
Aligarh 23 Feb 2020: Aligarh city was tense after clashes broke out on Sunday evening between police and anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) protesters in Shah Jamal and Uparkot area of Aligarh district, in which at least six persons were injured. Two of the injured are in a critical condition, confirmed officials. As per reports, stones were pelted, a few vehicles were damaged and a ‘Muslim’ shop was partly burnt in the violence.  Some women students from AMU are behind this, we are trying to identify them,” he said, adding that “We are ascertaining the damage caused by rioters and it will be recovered from them. The situation is under control now,
BJP's outspoken Bairia MLA Surendra Nath Singh has described the ongoing Anti-CAA protest at Shaheen Bagh in New Delhi as a global conspiracy by Muslim countries to
About 20 kilometers east from Delhi’s border, the chief priest of Devi Mandir, Yati Narsinghanand Saraswati, also the leader of a Hindutva organisation called Hindu Swabhiman and president of the Akhil Bharatiya Sant Parishad has been calling for a “final war against Muslims” and believes that “Islam must be removed to save humanity”. Some of the statements he made in the run up to the communal violence in Delhi are “If we don’t remove an evil like Islam from society, how will we survive?”, “Humanity can be saved only if we finish off Islam”, “When your religion needs, you should fight a war. And to pick up arms for religion is not a paap (sin) but punya (virtue)
BHOPAL, FEBRUARY 21, 2020: A sessions court in Ratlam has acquitted eight Christians accused of kidnapping and forcibly converting 60 children from Jhabua district in May 2017. Additional District and Sessions Judge Vivek Kumar Shrivastava acquitted them recently after none of the 20 witnesses, including parents, supported the prosecution version. As the six men and two women escorted the children to a Bible camp near Nagpur, on May 23, 2017, the railway police, tipped off by right-wing Hindu outfits, detained them at the Ratlam railway station. A case was registered under the Indian Penal Code and the Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Act.
On 18 February, Pastor Shajin from Devasabai church led a team of seven pastors from Rameswaram town to Sathankulam, where they were met by Pastor Lazar Barnabas and embarked on a four-day ministry distributing Christian literature. At approximately 9am on 21 February, the men were confronted by a member of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) named Ponniah who seized their tracts and accused them of converting people by force. Ponniah informed the local police, who arrived at the scene of the incident and escorted the pastors to the police station. Local sources report that once in the police station, police officers did not question the pastors about their activities but instead proceeded to assault the group, one of whom was handicapped. Sources close to Pastor Barnabas report that he was severely beaten with a ‘lathi’ (bamboo baton) by Sub Inspector Raghu Ganesh while other police officers looked on, and sustained injuries to his back and legs. On the same day, Ponniah, accompanied by members of a local Hindu ‘Munani’ (Radical nationalist) group, registered a First Information Report (FIR) against the nine Christians for attempting to convert him by force. The Christians were held in custody until 5:30pm and only released after local human rights activists intervened. CSW sources report that an FIR has been registered against the police. Pastor Barnabas, who had initially received medical attention in a government hospital for his injuries following the assault, is currently receiving treatment in a private hospital.
On Thursday 20 Feb 2020, the Union minister for animal husbandry, dairy and fisheries Giriraj Singh  said “The time has come to dedicate ourselves to the cause of country. Before 1947, our ancestors had been fighting for the independence of the country and Jinnah was planning to make India an Islamic state. Our ancestors committed a major lapse for which we are paying the price today – if at that time the Muslims had been sent there [Pakistan], we would not have had to face this situation,” .  Giriraj Singh is a well-known member of the government who has openly voiced his strong dislike for Muslims many times and is rarely pulled up by the BJP. Just four days ago, Mr Singh was reportedly summoned by BJP chief JP Nadda over his comment alleging that the Islamic seminary Deoband in Uttar Pradesh is an
A Hindu fringe group threatened to demolish Sheesh Mahal in Shalimar Bagh if the Archeological Survey of India (ASI) continues with restoration of the monument. After visiting the heritage site, United Hindu Front (UHF) international working president Jai Bhagwan Goyal cautioned the ASI to wrap up work immediately. “The archaeology department should abandon its scheme or UHF will demolish the structure and the department will be responsible for it,” Goyal, also a Delhi BJP member, said. Many fringe groups have been opposing the restoration of the Palace and have threatened to take action if the ASI goes forward with its work.
two injured persons in a mini truck that had rammed into a house in Govindgarh area. On searching, the police found two calves and three cows in the mini truck. The two injured were immediately rushed to Alwar’s district hospital. The two calves died in the accident and their post-mortem has been conducted. Later, the injured people’s families complained that the two had been beaten up by a mob. The accident occurred while they were trying to escape the mob. However, the police ignored their complaint and instead registered an FIR against the two injured for cow smuggling under Rajasthan Bovine Act. Police said
The Deoband administration is making announcements in Muslim colonies advising residents to take down the national flag hoisted on rooftops. The Sub-Divisional Magistrate Rakesh Kumar admitted that he has asked the municipal corporation to make such announcements. “We don’t want people to remove the national flag but they should follow the flag code, which expects people to respect the flag and hoist it only from sunrise to sunset,” he said. When reminded that the Supreme Court had said citizens have a fundamental right to fly the national flag on their premises throughout the year provided they don’t undermine the dignity of the Tricolour, Mr. Kumar said it was not a “big” issue and that he had received “oral” complaints from some people that the Tricolour was not being respected. “They want to see stones in the hands of the Muslim youth. When we hoist the national flag, they feel scared,” said a local resident, requesting anonymity. “I have asked the SDM to give us in writing or file an FIR against us for flying the national flag,” said Mavia Ali, former MLA and Samajwadi Party leader.
Bajrang Dal workers and activists of some right wing Hindu groups on Friday forced a newly-married inter-faith couple in Moradabad to call off their wedding reception despite 50 of the protesters being detained, police said. Bajrang Dal workers alleged that this was a case of “love jihad” since the woman was a Hindu and the man a Muslim. “Love jihad”, a term coined by right-wingers, is the alleged effort by Muslim men in targeting women belonging to non-Muslim communities for conversion to Islam by feigning love. The protestors said they would not allow the wedding reception at the venue and also demanded that the couple be ousted from the apartment. Superintendent of Police Moradabad, Amit Singh, however, said the couple had nothing to be afraid of. “Protesters have been detained. Police protection will be given to the couple and the function can be held. They (couple) can go ahead with their wedding reception,” he said.
Union minister and BJP leader Giriraj Singh on Tuesday described Islamic seminary Darul Uloom Deoband in Uttar Pradesh as the 'gangotri of terrorism', and blamed the region for nurturing terrorists. “I have said it earlier that Deoband is the gangotri of terrorists,” he told the media in Saharanpur on Tuesday. “All most wanted terrorists of the world came from Deoband, including Hafiz Saeed or any of the others. These people are not against CAA, they are against India. This is a kind of a Khilafat movement.” The Islamic seminary Darul Uloom Deoband is located in the town. Singh also alleged that if the protests against the amended Citizenship Act were just about the legislation, then Jawaharlal Nehru University student Sharjeel Imam would not have made the call to “divide the country”. “It is evident that minds of the young and women are being poisoned,” he said.
Riza Hassan student of Vivekananda Polytechnic had posted a photo of the Anti-CAA, NRC protest held in Adyar as his mobile status. A group of students from the same college opposed Riza for his status and assaulted him on 6th of February 2020. On February 8, when Riza’a father Yaqoob and his cousin Thasrif came to the college to complain to the Principal. When Yaqoob was speaking to the Principal, the same group assaulted Riza and his cousin Thasrif. Even as the principal reached the spot, the group continued to assault them. In the incident, Yaqoob was also injured. All three of them were rushed to the hospital in Puttur. After administering first aid, Riza and Thasrif were shifted to a hospital in Mangaluru for further treatment. Yaqoob has been admitted to the hospital in Puttur.
4 March 2020 Bulandshahr, Uttar Pradesh: Two Muslim men were brutally assaulted in western Uttar Pradesh's Bulandshahr district on Monday. One of the men who was assaulted has also claimed the attackers abused them with religious slurs and accused them of cow slaughter. They were also threatened with acid attacks, he further alleged. In the video, victims can be heard addressing the attackers as
Three men on motorcycles attacked Christians near Coimbatore district of Tamil Nadu, including children travelling home from the Third National Congress of the Synod of Pentecostal Churches a national congress focused on praying for peace in India amid escalating persecution. The men verbally threatened the passengers before smashing the windscreen of the vehicles, causing injury to the driver and passengers, which included women, children and the elderly. Pastor Paul Raj, one of the passengers, immediately called the police, who arrived at the scene a short time later. A First Information Report, which is necessary to start an investigation, has been registered against the perpetrators and investigations have been initiated.
A Muslim youth was badly beaten up by a group of five men  in East Delhi's Rani Garden Park. The boy was out for a stroll at the park when a group of five men came up and started abusing him. The victim who was then wearing an Anti-CAA Cap, was told that “Wearing a ‘NO NRC/CAA cap’ will do you no good. You're a Muslim. Your place is in Pakistan”. The perpetrators then started hitting and abusing him. He fell unconscious when they hit his head with a bottle of alcohol. The Police was quite lethargic in responding to the call of the victim's family.
Jameela, A 65 year old woman was assaulted and allegedly asked to leave the country purportedly by a RSS activist in Kerala, resulting in an injury. The woman was dragged by hair, beaten and abused by an auto rickshaw driver Babu, who has associated with RSS. The incident took place in Thrissur’s Mannuthy on Thursday. “I was threatened by him to leave the country, ” Jameela told media persons. Jameela complained to the police soon after the incident. However, no arrests have been made in the case as of yet. The police officers said that the one who attacked the woman is suffering from mental disorders. “Babu is an active RSS worker. He is mentally stable. Here, the police is facilitating the escape of a criminal from charges by labeling him as a person with mental disorder,” a relative of Jameela told Maktoob.
A Muslim youth suspected of stealing a mobile phone was allegedly stripped, thrashed and sodomised with an iron rod in Rajasthan's Barmer district around three weeks ago, his brother said in an FIR filed on 20 Feb 2020 after a video of the assault surfaced on social media. According to the brother of the Barmer victim, his sibling kept quiet about the attack on him at Tirsingri village on January 29 until someone shared a video clip purportedly showing two men attacking him repeatedly and later using a rod to sodomise him. The victim has since not returned home and switched off his mobile phone, his brother said.
A Muslim family of two was thrashed and verbally abused by an earlier employer of theirs when they had gone to collect their payment from him in Ghaziabad. They were thrashed while being called 'Pakistanis', 'Your NRC hasn't happened. You people are illegally living in India!'. The aggrieved party called the Police for protection and the situation became such that the former employer abused the couple in front of the Police. They were taken to a Police Station wherein they filed an FIR against the perpetrator.
During campaigning for upcoming Delhi elections, BJP MP Parvesh Verma delivered hate speeches against Muslims and the anti-CAA Protesters at Shaheen Bagh. The MP said that if the protest continues it will make a Kashmir-like situation and 'they' will enter houses and rape 'our sisters and daughters' if BJP doesn't come to power. He also promised to demolish the mosques built on government land if the party wins.  In spite of his enmity inciting speech publicly, no action has been taken against him.
On January 22nd, 2020, a college in Patna, JD Women's College brought out a notice banning Burqa inside college premises. It read:
A Muslim activist-writer Mariya Salim was denied a flat-for-rent owing to her religious identity. A flat broker cautiously asked her whether she was a Muslim, and then later said that the flat owners denied giving their flat to Muslims. Another broker confirmed that the activist was not able to obtain a flat because of her Muslim identity.
The BJP took out a pro-CAA rally on 13th of January, 2020, at Kuttiyadi, Kozhikode, Kerala. During the rally, various abusive and provocative slogans were shouted. One of them was also
On January 13, 2020, various Hindutva group led by the 'Hindu Jagran Vedike' staged a protest rally, demanding the government to stop the establishment of a 114-feet-statue of Jesus Christ at a place Kanakapura, Karnataka. The groups allege that the statue is an attempt to convert the Hindus of the area. They have given the State government an ultimatum of 25th January 2020 to react to their demands, after which they threaten stronger opposition.
A Muslim teacher was fired for her Hijab. Fatima Hasan, a female teacher of Super Montessori School, Thakur Ganj, Lucknow had been prohibited to take her classes with her hijab. She was further told that her wearing of hijab had resulted in the school's losses, and therefore she could either discard her hijab or resign from the position. Fatima Hasan had been an English teacher at SM School for around a year and had always used the hijab. No one had objected to it until the month of December, when the Principal of the school said that she had to teach without the hijab, as her hijab had brought financial losses to the school.  The school principal further informed her that due to the hijab many parents had withdrawn the admission of their children from the school.
4 Jan 2020 BENGALURU: G Somashekara Reddy, Ballari City BJP MLA and brother of tainted mining baron G Janardhana Reddy cautioned Muslims against participating in anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests and warned them of dire consequences if they did. At a pro-CAA rally organised by the BJP and ABVP activists on Friday, he said: “We Hindus are 80% in India and if the 17% Muslim population damages our property, we cannot just stand by and watch.”
Communal tensions had arisen after a few people of the Fatehpur village, jalandhar, Punjab, tried to obstruct Muslims from praying. According to the reporting agency UNI, this was reportedly in response to the attack on Gurudwara Nankana Sahib in Pakistan. The Police have arrested 2 people in this matter. On Sunday, The Imam of the Quba mosque Mazhar Ali told that some boys tried to obstruct Muslims from offering namaz and verbally abused them. He further told that when the case came to light, the Police Deputy Commissioner Balkar Singh mediated between both the groups and abated the tensed situation.
A Church was vandalized in the Baghwanpur area of the Purba Medinipur district of West Bengal. About 800 worshippers had gathered for the inauguration ceremony of the Church. A group of 25-30 Hindu radicals arrived on 12 bikes with the BJP flag. Slogans like 'Jai Shri Ram' were raised by the miscreants, who entered the Church and vandalized the Church property which included chairs, tables, window-panes, ceiling fans, and microphones. They also vandalized Pastor Anup Kumar Ghosh's car. Some of the worshipers who tried to flee were met with physical assault. Crude bombs were hurled at the Church and at the Pastor. The miscreants left after about 15 minutes but not before threatening to come back and launch similar attacks. Two of the four injured were minors. The direct victims of goons' attack were roughly 100 in numbers. The Police has registered a complaint and has arrested 3 of the 8 people named in the FIR.
Union Minister Babul Supriyo, from the BJP Party, has threatened a Muslim student to pack off the student to
A Rajasthan-based Muslim lawyer has been arrested by the UP police claiming that he has links with militants. The advocate was providing legal-aid to the protesters when he was arrested. Police linked him with the PFI(Popular front of India) while his family refuses the claims. NHRC informed the Kairana Bar Association to intervene in the matter but nothing has been done so far.
The UP Police arrested a 24-year-old advocate Mohammad Faizal who is a resident of Kota, Rajasthan. He was sent by the National Confederation of Human Rights Organizations (NCHRO) of which he is a member to provide legal aid to the protesters arrested by the UP Police in the Anti-CAA protests. He is framed under various sections of the IPC. The Police say that he is found to be a member of the Popular Front of India (PFI) by the content found on his mobile phone. They also allege him of 'inciting violence' and 'distributing objectional pamphlets'. He was arrested along with three other men, and all of them are accused of having links with the PFI. Faizal's family members have denied the allegations and claim that they have urged the NHRC to intervene.
On 22 December 2019 Yati Narasimhanand Saraswati Maharaj, the National Convenor of the Akhil Bharatiya Sant Parishad, and who is known for spreading hatred made a communally charged hate speech at a pro-CAA/pro-NRC rally at Jantar Mantar, New Delhi. The rally was organised by Updesh Rana Youth Brigade. At the rally he used abusive language against the Muslim community and said that after the implementation of the National Register of Citizens the government must bring in population control measures to limit the population of the Muslim community. He said that Muslims were contaminating the population of the country. He threatened members of the Muslim community by saying
An 18-year-old Muslim boy from the Phulwari Sharif area of Patna, Bihar was attacked by 10-12 people. Amir Hanzla had completed his Class 10th and was working in a bag stitching unit. On the day of his murder, since his factory unit was closed he went to participate in an anti CAA and NRC protest organised by the opposition parties. As the police used force to disperse the crowd, he ran with a tricolour in his hand to save himself and took refuge in one Sangat Gali. He was apprehended by a group of 10-12 people there, who according to the Post-Mortem report, hit his head with a blunt and heavy object and stabbed twice his abdomen with a sharp object. As one of the perpetrators later told the police, they took his body on a cycle cart to the block headquarters and threw it into a waterlogged area with tall grass. His body was found in a decomposed state on December 31, 10 days after he went missing. He was identified by his family members only by his wristwatch and clothes. The family of the deceased lodged a missing report the night he went missing with the Police. The Police have arrested 6 persons who are described by Police officials as 'known criminals', namely Nagesh Samrat, Vikas Kumar, Deepak Mahto, Chhotu Mahto, Sanoj Mahto, and Rais Paswan.
A senior police officer from the sensitive town of Meerut, where five died on December 20 during protests against the controversial Citizenship Amendment Act, has been caught on video shot in Meerut's Lisari Gate on 20 December 2019 asking protesters to leave India and
After violence in an anti-CAA protest broke out the UP police detained Maulana Asad and his 100 students (mostly minor) from Saadat Hostel cum orphanage. The detainees were brutally tortured and were denied access to toilet and were forced to chant 'Jai Shri Ram'. Brutal tortured on the detainees caused rectal bleeding. The cleric was taken to civil lines where he was kept in dark, was stripped and beaten brutally.
UP Police barged in several houses in search of two men who fled from the anti-CAA protests in Old Lucknow. Police vandalized and assaulted several women before catching the flee men. The women were hit on knee and stomach, were lathicharged and their private vehicles were smashed. People are in fear in the area. More than 1000 were arrested and above 5000 were under preventive detention. 19 people have lost their lives so far.
Social Activist and former school teacher Sadaf Jafar was arrested on December 19 during the anti-CAA protests going on in Lucknow, UP. She was filming the protests when she was arrested. She was kept in police custody for the night and then sent to jail. She said both male and female personnel of the Police slapped her on various occasions. Her hair was pulled, she was called a 'Pakistani', and was addressed as 'tum log (you people)' multiple times. a She was thrashed the whole night. She was also brought before a senior officer of the Police who ordered a constable to slap her. Then the police officer himself kicked Sadaf on her stomach. Male detainees were also stripped in front of Sadaf. Further, anyone who wanted to meet her was detained. The Additional Superintendent of Police, Suresh Chandra, denied the allegations.
MANGALURU: The students of Sri Rama Vidya Kendra at Kalladka, 30km from Mangaluru, re-created events surrounding Ram Janmabhoomi at its sports day event on Sunday. Dignitaries who watched the programme included Puducherry Lt Governor Kiran Bedi and Union and state ministers like DV Sadananda Gowda. At the school, run by RSS leader Kalladka Prabhakar Bhat, the students enacted LK Advani’s Rath Yatra, the demolition of Babri Masjid in 1992, and the proposed building of a Ram temple in Ayodhya.
A senior student of Dar Ul Uloom Waqf Deoband was assaulted and grievously hurt by four men while travelling in a bus towards his institution. An FIR has been registered against the unknown assailants and the bus has been seized. The driver of the bus and the conductor have also been arrested and questioned. It is being said that the boy boarded the bus and was taking a seat when four men who had been seated at the back came up and started beating him. When one of the passenger got up to help, they threatened him and asked him to go away. The boy was grievously hurt on his head by an iron rod which led to severe bleeding.
Muslim residents of sootea, a village situated in Sontipur district of Assam were displaced allegedly by BJP MLA Padma Hazarka  on 5-9th December 2019 ,only for the reason that these residents did not vote for the Bhartiya Janta Party. There are a total of 426 families which include 1800 members who have been displaced. Currently these families stay in three different camps nearby sootea. The District Commissioner of Sontipur has claimed that these families where staying illegally on a Government land. However the Jamat-e-Islami Hindi press release stated that the Gauhati High court had put a stay order on the issue of eviction of these families. 65-year-old Akkas Ali told Arab News, “The government says we are encroachers and Bangladeshis, and they evicted us from our own land despite having all the documents. The larger goal, I feel, is that the BJP wants to settle down Hindu Bengalis in this area who will act as a permanent vote bank for the party.”
A Kashmiri truck driver, Mohd. Maqbool was beaten up by policemen in Faridabad. The truck was carrying pipes from Kolkata to Srinagar. They stopped the truck in the expressway near a toll in Faridabad, to take rest and change the drivers. The policemen came and attacked the driver and his friends. They were beaten up and harassed. Later, the Police also took Rs. 30000 from their wallets. The Police Commissioner has said that, the case has not yet been clearly reported with the evidences. If it is reported, case would be initiated in that manner.
Four Kashmiri students were beaten up by a mob of 70 students following an argument between the groups. The students, Tahir Majeed, Bilal Ahmad, Isfaq Ahmad Qureshi and Mohammad Ali are from Mewar University, Rajasthan. A mob of around 70 students from Bihar attacked the four at night. Earlier during the day, there was an argument between students from Kashmir and Bihar regarding a pass given by the security only to Kashmiri students. The Kashmiri students were called 'terrorists'. Later, at night the mob attacked the students. They carried rods and knives. Four were beaten up. One has suffered serious injuries. Several such incidents have been reported in the university in the past and this is the second attack against Kashmiri students in Rajasthan after reading down of Article 370 by Modi Government.
A man was forced to chant 'Jai Shri Ram' by three youths near the crowded Railway Road, Saharanpur, Uttar Pradesh. On opposing their actions, they cursed him and fled the scene.  The situation was such that the men had shouted at the victim to raise the slogan of 'Jai Shri Ram' but he ignored and kept walking but after a small distance, he was again stopped by the three men and asked to shout, which he denied. On seeing his refusal, they started cursing him and left before any help could arrive. The incident has been reported to the Police but they have shown a callous attitude towards this matter.
Nine Muslim Policemen in Alwar were given an order by the head officer to shave their beards to look unbiased while on duty. The order was justified saying, 'policemen should not only act unbiased but also look unbiased'. A provision of the state government allows the HoD (head of the department) to permit policemen to keep beards. Earlier, under the provision, 32 policemen were allowed to sport beards, but the current ordered withdrew the permission of 9 of them, permitting the rest 23. After the news became controversial the next day, the order was withdrawn.
Two people were lynched by the local people alleging that they were involving in cattle theft. Prakash Das and Raibul Islam were stopped by the locals of the Putimari Fileswari village when they were transporting two cows in their pick up vans. The locals alleged that they were cattle thieves and beat them up. They were taken to the hospital with injuries, where they were declared brought dead. Thirteen people have been arrested in relation to the incident. Being close to the border with Bangladesh, cow smuggling is a major issue in Cooch Behar.
Communal tension arose in Mehsar village of Bhiwanipur of Darbhanga district inBihar, over the responsibility of an accident. Confusion over the liability of the accident led to the communal tension in which people of Muslim and Hindu communities got involved. Police have registered an FIR against people of both these communities and are currently camping in the village to avoid any further disturbances in this matter.
Students of Banaras Hindu University started a protest against the  appointment of a non-Hindu as an assistant professor in Sanskrit in the Sahitya faculty’s Sanskrit Vidya Dharm Vijnan.  According to the protesting students, a non- hindu can't be appointed in their 'Gurukul. Students have said that Khan's appointment is a
A Christian pastor's family was attacked in the house church by Hindu Radicals. The incidence occurred in the home church when everyone gathered for worship. A group of 8 to 9 men attacked the wife, mother and son of the clergymen. The wife has been admitted in hospital at coma stage. The son recovered  leg injury. The elderly mother was also attacked. The pastor himself ran to the Police Station and filed a complaint, following which he fell unconscious there.They have been stuck in the financial burden to meet the hospital charges. They claim that the perpetrators belong to the RSS, an extremist Hindu Paramilitary group. It has been reported that since the passing of the Anti Conversion Law in Jharkhand in 2017, it has been used as a tool to attack religious minorities. Persecution Relief, an organisation to the defense of discriminated Christians in India  has recorded 330 hate crime incidents against Christians in 2016, another 440 in 2017, and at least 477 in 2018. Between January to September of this year, it counted 349 incidents involving persecuted Christians.
Fathima Latheef, a 19 year old  IIT- Madras Student has committed suicide alleging her professors for religious discrimination in her suicide note. The girl, hailing from Kollam district of Kerala, hanged herself on 9th of November in her hostel.  In the suicide note, saved in her phone, she has noted 'Sudarshan Padmanabhan is the cause of my death'. Mr. Padmanabhan is a professor in the Department of Humanities and Social Sciences, the same faculty the girl belongs to. In the further note, she has accused two other professors also. Her parents have reported that, she has mentioned many times about discrimination on the basis of her religion.
A 48 year old man, Mubarak Ansari was beaten to death by a mob in Bokaro District of Jharkhand over allegation of theft. On evening of 6th November, Mubarak along with Akhthar Ansari was attacked by a group who reached the spot as the truck driver shouted out that the two were trying to steal the battery of the truck. The Police reached the spot. While Akhthar  was hospitalized with serious injuries, Mubarak was declared to be brought dead to the hospital.   A video of the incident purportedly shows a group hitting Mubarak with slippers and asking him to confess to earlier thefts he had allegedly committed. He is not able to speak and one side of his jaw appears to be broken. Mubarak’s family has brushed aside allegations of robbery against him and doubts that the attack could be a fallout of an earlier clash between him and the residents of Govindpur.   Five Persons, including a woman has been detained after filing an FIR charging Murder, Attempt to Murder and Conspiracy under Sections of the Indian Penal Code.This is the 22nd death due to mob violence in Jharkhand in the past three-and-a-half years.
The appointment of Asst. Prof. Feroz Khan in the faculty of Sanskrit Vidya Dharm Vigyan at BHU had give rise to protests by the students in the varsity. Rizavana Tabassum, as a freelance journalist, had gone to cover the protests. The protesting students were raising slogans against Muslims and Feroz Khan. She wanted to talk to the students. Therefore she said to one of the students,
Sakshi Maharaj targeted Muslims on their population and said that soon a child control policy would be launched wherein lesser number of children will be made compulsory. He said that Muslims have a growing population due to their allowance of 4 wives after which they beget 40 children. This will soon be done away with and a two-child policy will be initiated. He also ignited the Babri Masjid debate, saying that construction for the Ram Temple will soon begin and it will be made sure that it is before the 6th of December 2019.
A Hindu woman was seen setting up a praying spot in Parbhani's historical Masjid which has been closed to a period of 70 years now. No traces of her were to be found later on. This incident has left people angry and agitated as this act has again ignited the communal fire.
A Hindu man in Hyderabad refused to accept food that was to be delivered to him by a Muslim Swiggy delivery executive. The Swiggy executive has now filed a police complaint with the Shah Ali Banda Police Station over the incident.  The Swiggy customer identified as Ajay Kumar, a resident of Aliabad, while placing an order with a restaurant set an instruction saying, “Very less spicy… And please select hindu delivery person. All ratings will be based on this.” (sic) What Ajay in his communal fervour forgot to understand was that the delivery instructions are meant for the restaurant, and the assigning of delivery executives is done by the algorithm of the app. The Swiggy app assigned Mudassir who was to deliver the food and this provoked Ajay to revert with a taunt and a call to Swiggy's customer executive.
A 37-year-old man Afsar Ansari was thrashed to death by a group of villagers on the pretext of child lifting whereas he was only talking to a child while visiting his in-laws. The accused spread rumors of child lifting by Ansari after which a mob gathered and bashed him to death. He received head injuries and was spot dead when the Police arrived.
Local Education Authorities suspended the headmaster of a Government School after the Vishwa Hindu Parishad and the Hindu Yuva Vahini alleged that the teacher made students recite a religious prayer, i.e. Bache Ki Dua, a poem written by Allama Iqbal in 1902. The investigation conducted by the Block Education Officer revealed that the children of the primary school usually sang the poem during the morning assembly. District Magistrate Vaibhav Srivastava said that the headmaster was suspended because he did not make students sing the national anthem. However, Ali denied the allegations. “Students regularly sing the national anthem and the poem by Iqbal is part of the Urdu syllabus for classes one to eight,” he said. “VHP and Hindu Yuva Vahini workers held protests outside the school and at the collectorate, demanding my removal. I only got a poem, which is part of the government school syllabus, sung.” Ali added that students also chant patriotic slogans like “Bharat Mata Ki Jai”.
A disagreement between a group of Valmiki's and Muslims led to communal clashes. There were allegations of firing blanks in the air after which hell broke loose. People were running helter-skelter looking for cover. Police arrived as soon as they were informed along with additional cover of the PAC. Those injured in this clash were admitted in hospital.
A violent communal clash arose between communities after an idol of Goddess Durga was stoned and broken. This led to heavy stone pelting and injures to more than 12 people. 10 shops were razed and many more were lighted. Police and RAF arrived at the location in order to control the mob but it required blank firing to calm down. Additional forces have been stationed as a precaution. All other idols proceeding for immersion have been stopped. Section 144 has been imposed for a period of time.
A communal clash arose between communities when a crowd was going towards Ram Rekha River for immersion of a deity. Close to 12 shops of Muslims were burnt and a lot of hara-kiri was created. A fire brigade had to be called to put out the fire and a Police force along with the PAC was required to disperse the crowd. Additional forces were put up as a precautionary measure.
The festivities of Dussera ended in communal violence on Wednesday night, where the 'provocative' songs being played at the Bhandara be stopped. In the resulting stone-pelting that ensued from the local mosque, members of both communities, as well as passers-by were injured. However, before the violence could turn into a full-fledged communal riot, spreading out into the city, the local social activists and senior citizens managed to calm both the parties down. Station House Officer Shahganj Arvind Kumar said that the incident took place in the Deoretha area of Agra where a Bhandara was being organised by the locals.
A man was standing with his family at the Central Bus Station in Alwar when two people came up to him and told him to chant 'Jai Shri Ram'. He observed that the two were in a drunk state and ignored them. Raees Khan, the man with his family, ignored them but they continued their actions while making obscene gestures towards the women of his family. This continued for a period of time until a nearby tea vendor intervened. The two people pushed him off and continued. Some moments later, an Army personnel came up and pushed away the two mischief mongers and dared them to come back. After calming down tempers, the Police was informed and told to look into the matter.
The killing of a monkey, allegedly by a Muslim man, has once again widened religious fault-lines in the communally-sensitive Shamli district in Uttar Pradesh, with no consensus on what really happened. While the family of the accused, Hafeez, said he shot the monkey in self defence, tensions flared after the village’s Hindu residents, backed by local Bajrang Dal unit, insisted that he had hurt their sentiments as the monkey is 'an avatar of Lord Hanuman'. A senior police official, who did not want to be named, said: “Saturday was Navratri and the Bajrang Dal added fuel to the clash. After the Muzaffarnagar riots, some communities have become insecure. Many people have started applying for arms licenses citing self-defence.”
A birthday celebration of Christian family was attacked by Hindu radicals in Vasalamarry village, located 40 miles (64 km) outside of Hyderabad in India’s Telangana state. According to local reports, the mob of 30 radical nationalists stormed into the Christian home where guests had gathered for the birthday celebrations. The radicals vandalized decorations, terrified the guests, and destroyed several household items owned by the Christian family. The radicals claimed the Christians did not have permission to hold prayers and have a birthday celebration. The radicals then chased the Christians from the house and warned them not to hold any more prayers in the village. The following day, the same mob went to the Pastor's home, and he demanded stop doing any Christian work in the village. A delegation of pastors from Yadadri Bhongir district met with district police officers on October 4 and submitted a complaint against the attackers.
A mob of cow vigilantes beat up a man with the allegation that he was smuggling half-a-dozen cows to Haryana in Rajasthan's Alwar district in the early hours on Monday. Police rescued the victim from the crowd and admitted him with multiple fractures at the government hospital in Shahjahanpur. Munfed Khan was travelling with 7 bovine animals in a vehicle. He was roughed up by villagers in Khusa Ki Dhani area of Shahjahanpur in Rajasthan's Alwar. Khan, who had allegedly been involved in incidents of cow smuggling in the past, had escaped from the police barrier and was caught by the villagers who beat him up badly, though at least two others fled from the spot.
On Sunday, 22 September, in the early hours of the morning, yet another incident of mob lynching took place in Jharkhand. A mob of 12 to 15 men caught hold of three men at Jaltanda Suari village in Khunti district, around 50kms from the state capital of Ranchi, for allegedly selling beef at a riverside market. One of the victims of the attack, a tribal man died on the way to the hospital while the condition of two other men is said to be critical. The deceased has been identified as Kalantus Barla and the injured as Fagu Kachhapand and Phillip Hahoro. All three men are tribal Christians. “The three villagers, identified as Kalantus Barla, Philip Horo and Faagu Kacchap, are alleged to have been carving an animal prohibited for slaughtering. Other villagers spotted them and started beating them. However, police reached the spot as we got information and rushed them to the hospital. Barla sustained grievous injuries and he died before reaching the hospital.  The other two are said to be stable,” said DIG (Chhotanagpur Range) Homkar Amol Venukant. Speaking to India Today TV, locals from Suari village under Karra PS of Khunti district expressed shock and grief over the death of Kalantus Barla. Villagers claimed that workers from Bajrang Dal were behind the attack. A fact-finding report published by Director of the Centre for Study of Society and Secularism, Mumbai, Irfan Engineer, who spoke to the media in detail, said the attack was planned as Sauri village was a Christian-dominated village. He said the attackers from various villages came early and knew it was the time of the local Badapahadi festival where meat would be distributed as it was the age-old practice. The riverbed where the lynching took place was in an isolated area without approach roads, he added. “It is evident that this assembly of people could not have been spontaneous,” Engineer added. Engineer further said that the village was selected with a design. “Christians were targeted with the aim to polarise Adivasi communities into Sarna versus Christian...to weaken the joint Adivasi struggles to protect their gram sabha and land tenancy rights.”
In the Marwari College in Ranchi, the over-all best graduate Nishat Fatima, who came to the College to take her degree in graduation ceremony could not get it in the ceremony because she came wearing a burqa (veil) to attend the program. Her name was called for the gold medal at the ceremony as she had to take the medal first. However, at the same time, it was announced that she was not in the dress code fixed by the college, due to which she could not be given a degree in the ceremony.After which the process of awarding medals and degrees to other toppers was started. Despite the dress code being fixed, Nishat’s father Muhammad Ikramul Haq said that the burqa is included in their tradition.
A Muslim family travelling from Kannauj was attacked after getting off a train at the Aligarh railway station on Sunday. According to the family, they were beaten up by a mob of around 15 men who didn’t specify why they were being violent. “They were getting down from the train and suddenly a group of 15 attacked them. They were wearing saffron and screaming slogans. They were attacked because they were Muslim,” said Farhan Zuberi, an eyewitness. The family includes two men and two women who were travelling to Aligarh as one of them needed medical care at a hospital there. Mr. Ali claimed that the people who attacked them came from outside and were not travelling on the train. “They didn’t board the train either. They came, targeted the family whose women were wearing burqas and ran away when the police chased them.”   Afsana Begum's family had come from Kannauj for her son Shafiq's medical treatment. The situation was eased after GRP inspector Yashpal Singh assured them that the culprits would be charged. On Monday, former AMU student union president Salman Imtiaz led a protest march. In a memorandum handed over to the district authorities, the students demanded the arrest of those involved in the attack within 48 hours. They warned they would intensify their protest if the attackers are not arrested by then.  The memorandum called the incident a
Radical Hindu groups cracked down on Christians which has led to the jailing of at least eight Christians on charges of forced conversion in the Lakhimpur Kheri district of Uttar Pradesh. Pastor Ram Kumar and Gokran were assaulted by a mob of angry Hindus during a prayer service. Police arrived and arrested the Pastors whereas the perpetrators were let off. They were then released on bail on Friday, five days after their arrest. There was a group of 50 people at the prayer service which is held on Sundays.
Three Sisters were assaulted and tortured at the Burha Police Outpost of Darrang district by two officers who beat them without respite, causing one of them to suffer a miscarriage. Even though the incident took place on the 8th of September, 2019, it only came to light on Tuesday, 17th September after the women approached the media claiming that the police were refusing to file a case. The woman had initially filed a complaint with the Darrang district Superintendent of Police on September 10, but their case was not registered.  The three sisters, aged 28, 30 and 18, were picked up at around 1.30 am on September 9 during a raid led by SI Sarma. Police claim the women were detained for questioning because a case was registered against their brother for allegedly abducting a Hindu woman. The assault continued all night and only stopped after their brother, who was reportedly in Meghalaya's Shillong with the woman he had allegedly kidnapped, surrendered at the police outpost. Reports said that the two police personnel involved in the assault, Mahendra Sarma and Binita Boro, had also been suspended after the criminal cases were filed against them.
Dozens of assailants from the youth militant group Bajrang Dal intruded in a church service and began verbally abusing congregants before tearing up Bibles, breaking church supplies, and stealing the offering box. Following the attack, the group’s organizer, Yadav, went live on Facebook, showing off the Christians who were forced out of their house church and onto the streets. In the video, Yadav is seen pestering women about why they attended the service and claiming that Christianity has destroyed the entire district. Eventually, Police arrived, and church Pastor Manohar Prasad Varnwa, his family, and a few members were forced into a police vehicle. Meanwhile, the assailants stood by, watching the Christians’ arrest. The live-stream ends on Yadav’s final comment: “Our job is to make this area free of Christianity.” Police denied the claim of a forced signature but admitted the team had been sent to the church when they received word that the congregation was “promoting Christianity.”
A man was attacked after the bus he was driving caused injury to a cow. Zakir Khan was on the driver's seat when the bus hit a cow sitting on the road. The bovine's leg was injured in the mishap. Angry youths gathered at the spot and forced their way into the bus. They beat the driver and brought him out and thrashed him mercilessly. The incident occurred at Alipura. After the Police reached the spot, Zakir, was taken to a primary health centre. Subsequently, he was referred to the district hospital.
A Muslim boy was attacked when he was delivering milk in an area near his residence in Bihar's Aurangabad. Around 20-25 people jumped and assaulted him with rods and sticks, later on using knives to stab him in the chest. A local of the boy's area passing by saw him being bashed and came to his rescue and he was also injured heavily(Ejaz Khan) in the process. On being admitted in the hospital, the boy's condition was very critical whereas the rescuer was out of danger.
Mir Faiz, a Kashmiri and a third year aeronautical engineering student was attacked and forced to wear women's clothes while at the Neemrana Market. He was waylaid by three boys who forced him to get onto a bike. They took him to an isolated place where he was forced to wear a woman’s clothes. They then instructed him to walk around the market in those clothes. They threatened to kill him if he did not. He tried to walk into an ATM and change his clothes but panicked, when he came out he was caught by a crowd, tied to a pillar and repeatedly slapped. Police also kept him in the lock-up for a few hours before letting him go.
A man died after being mercilessly beaten up by a mob in West Bengal’s Murshidabad on Wednesday, less than a week after the state Assembly cleared a bill to prevent lynching. He was trashed to death by locals at Lalbagh area of Baharampur town in Murshidabad, accusing him “intruding” into the premises of a polyclinic and attacking them “with chairs”. His body was later recovered from the balcony of the shop with his hands and legs tied with rope. He was declared brought dead at Murshidabad Medical College and Hospital.
One of the main litigants in the Babri Masjid Case was attacked at his house by two people. His security personnel intervened and saved him from the attackers who were detained by police. “The woman introduced herself as Vartika Singh and claimed that she was an international shooter. They asked me to withdraw my claim from the dispute, threatening that she would otherwise shoot me,” Iqbal Ansari said. “They then attacked me but I was saved by my security personnel,” he added, clarifying that he did not sustain any injuries in the attack.
A police constable was attacked by some men for being a Muslim. In the registered FIR, the 44 -year old police constable has alleged that the men assaulted him because is a Muslim.In his complaint, Shaikh said,  “As I was heading back to my home after concluding my day duty scheduled at Pratapnagar Headquarters, an unknown young person crossing the road near Shiv Shakti Mohalla locality waved his hand to me. After I asked him calmly to cross the road, he came towards me and started addressing me with the words targeting my religion.” A lawyer, who was present at the Panigate Police Station said that the officers at the station were initially reluctant to register the complaint in detail against the accused. He alleged, “The police writer was trying his best to simplify the incident, thus, to make it sound like a common quarrel or fight,”. He further added that “the simplification of it would omit the communal color the attack, helping the accused to go away easily”. “It is a case of mob attack and hate crime. Also, it does invoke some special sections of IPC for hurting religious sentiments,” he said. “It was sad to see ‘one of them’[referring to Arif] being treated differently by their own system and people,” he said referring to the police apathy.
Four Muslim men and a boy were attacked over suspicion of child trafficking by villagers in Gaya. The men were returning in the Ambassador car, when a stone was thrown in their direction causing the driver to loose control and smash into a tree. Lots and lots of people came with sticks and stones and started hitting the group. They were beaten even badly when on asking their name it was revealed that they were Muslims. The boy along with the men was also beaten. The victims had to be admitted to ICU due to the injuries received.
“Every year, VHP members take out small processions comprising around 100 people but this time they had a gathering of about 4,000 people. The only purpose of increasing the strength of the procession was to get the permission from authorities to carry out the procession through the Jama Masjid area,” Ameen Sadar, a Muslim leader of Gangapur told The Wire. There are several videos which show anti-Muslim slogans being raised by VHP men in the procession. These allegedly include lines like, “Hindustan mein rehna hai toh chup chap rehna hoga” (‘If you want to stay in India, you’ll have to remain quiet’). “The police was witness to the anti-Muslim slogans that the members of the procession were raising, still they have only taken our men into custody. Why is there no punishment for the people who say bad things to us?” said Sadar.   Police said about 40 men were detained. “Around 35 Muslim men and five Hindu men have been detained,” Pratampal, circle officer in Gangapur city told The Wire. Ismail Khan, a member of the Rajasthan Pradesh Congress Committee in Gangapur said the police detained almost every Muslim man that the VHP members named. “The Muslim community repeatedly told the police about the anti-Muslim slogans being raised by some men in the procession but they didn’t listen. They only did what the VHP men ordered them to do,” he said.
A Muslim Auto-driver was verbally abused and assaulted when he picked up passengers from Bandra and was heading towards Ghatkopar. Near the Ghatkopar bridge they troubled Azhar by criss-crossing with their vehicles and when he objected,  they cursed his family and told him to leave India. He was told to leave as he now had no role since 'they' had already taken Kashmir. His beard was pulled and he was hit. Bystanders only recorded the incident and no one came forward to help.
Cow vigilantes brutally thrashed a Muslim resident of Naya Mohalla who is also a tamtam driver, by the name Mohammed Shabbir, who was carrying animal waste to a dumping yard. They stopped his vehicle and started beating him and poured diesel into his eyes. Shabbir had stopped over for a refill in his vehicle at Sultanpur X Roads, Gulbarga when the incident happened. He happens to be a resident of Naya Mohalla, Hajj Committee, Gulbarga.
Clashes erupted between two communities when Shiv Sena workers were taking out a rally from nearby an Eidgah where Eid prayers where going on. According to sources, they shouted inflammatory slogans as the group neared the assembly of worshipers. Though the people tried to rub off the issue through dialogue, stone-pelting began from either side and then the situation turned into a proper riot. Vehicles were badly damaged in the process while people were left to fend for themselves. If this wasn't enough, the Police arrested people from the minority on the pretext of inciting violence. This partial behaviour has left the residents shuddering with fear. Prompted by the happenings, Chairman of Jamiat e Ulama Maharashtra Hafiz Nadeem Siddiqui spoke to the SP Yogesh Kumar, IG Prakash Mittal and the Collector Rojesh Jeevanshi of Hingoli district. They assured him of eliminating vice and getting hold of the perpetrators.
Murali Pulsatyam, an advocate in Jagtial district of Telangana uploaded an offensive and inciting Whatsapp status on the occasion of Eid Ul Adha which led an unrest in the area. On receiving complaints from the people, Inspector B. Jeevan registered the FIR and also recorded the statements of the present witnesses. The advocate was remanded by the First Class Judicial Magistrate when brought to court.
A bus was pelted at and set on fire near the Dar Ul Hukumat Eidgah, Jaipur. It isn't clear as to who caused the damage but this led to shutting down of internet services in the city and prohibitory order being passed to Police Stations in the jurisdiction. More than 12 people were injured in this incident. Police arrived and soon took to patrolling.
Baba Ramdev said that as Article 370 has been abrogating, building Ram temple in Ayodhya will be next move by the PM Modi-led Centre. “Ram Mandir will be built under the leadership of PM Modi. Muslims are our brothers and our ancestors are one. Ram is not only ancestor of Hindus, he is also an ancestor of Muslims. We should not disrespect our ancestors. Hindus and Muslims should create their bond and think like one. The Supreme Court has imposed middlemen for Ayodhya, which didn’t work. Faith is the biggest thing and it should not be distracted,” said the Yoga guru.
A man was brutally assaulted and forced to chant 'Jai Shri Ram' by 3 men who were in an inebriated state. They beat him with sticks and rods and tried to choke him. He was told to 'Go to Pakistan' by the assailants and if it were not for the people in the area, Shahrukh Chohan wouldn't have been alive.
Ajay Gautam, founder of right-wing organisation 'Hum Hindu', was invited to the News24 studio for a debate on the Zomato controversy where he refused to even look at a Muslim TV anchor. The incident was not part of the original video uploaded by the news channel on YouTube on 1 August. A short clip was later circulated and many on Twitter slammed Gautam for his actions. After the incident, the TV channel has decided not to invite Gautam to its studio.
Three young men were brutally assaulted in Godhra after they allegedly refused to chant 'Jai Shri Ram'. At about 11 PM, the boys were passing through Bawani Madhi, a neighbourhood inhabited predominantly by members of the majority community, on their motor cycles. They were allegedly accosted by six as yet unidentified men who demanded to know why they were in the were in the neighborhood and then asked them to chant 'Jai Shri Ram'. When the boys refused, they were assaulted with weapons including knives. The boys suffered serious injuries and have been admitted to the local civil hospital.
A 15-year-old Muslim boy was set on fire by four people in Chandauli district when the boy refused to chant “Jai Shri Ram”. The incident took place on Sunday night and the boy has been admitted in Kabir Chaura hospital in Varanasi. The condition of the boy with 60 per cent burns is said to be critical. “I was walking on Dudhari bridge when four men kidnapped me. Two of them tied my hand and third one started pouring kerosene. After which they set me on fire and ran away,” he said.
Irfan Ansari, an INC MLA in Jharkhand was asked to chant 'Jai Shri Ram' on camera by BJP MLA, CP Singh. When he resisted saying 'You cannot scare me', the reply was 'Not only will you, your ancestors also chanted 'Jai Shri Ram'. This incident has left people fuming and hasn't been dealt with yet.
A minor boy who was thrashed to death by a mob on suspicion of being a burglar in northwest Delhi was simply roaming in the area when people caught him and beat him up brutally, the victim”s family members claimed on Saturday. The police have registered a case and arrested six persons and a minor for thrashing the victim to death in Lal Bagh cluster area.The boy was allegedly beaten to death over suspicion of stealing from a house in the same neighbourhood. The deceased was the eldest among six siblings and his mother had died three years ago. His father Amjad (42) used to work as a plumber and had stopped working since the past three years due to bad health. His grandmother has a shop in the area and she supports the family. The victim was taken to a nearby hospital where he succumbed to his injuries during treatment.
Soon after the Aligarh district administration banned religious recitation programmes on the streets, the Hindu Jagran Manch (HJM) on Saturday said that the district magistrate (DM) will be forced to chant Hanuman Chalisa on the road if the order was implemented. Threatening DM Aligarh CB Singh, the HJM state general secretary Surendra Singh Bhagaur said,
A 22-year-old man was allegedly beaten up by a group of five youths after they inquired about his name and found out his community in Bharuch. Police have registered a complaint on Sunday and are looking for the accused. Fasial said, “I left on my bike and after crossing around 100 meters, I saw five people in a verbal duel with another man who was travelling on bike. I did not pay attention and tried to pass through the side when the men, speaking local language, caught hold of me and asked my name. When I said my name, they asked which company I was working for. I gave the company’s address when three of them started slapping me. When I asked what was my fault, they replied with fists. Somehow I managed to escape from the spot as my bike was on. I hid myself at a distance and informed a colleague, about the incident.” According to Faisal, after three of the five youths went away from the spot, he thought of returning to the company for safety. However, the other two men who were present on the spot, again stopped Faisal and beating him up and kicked him. “I took out my belt in defense but they caught hold of it and beat me with it. I left my bike and ran to the company gate. They chased me and beat me up again. The company security guards, instead of helping me, escaped from the spot. Meanwhile, the other three men joined them and forced me into an auto rickshaw, took me to a lonely place nearby and again beat me up. They left me there when they were tired.” Faisal called up his colleagues who took him to Patel Welfare Hospital in Bharuch by night. The hospital authorities informed police about the incident.
A Muslim widow aged about 50 years was beaten and had her burqa pulled by a Hindu Man in Islamia Bazar, Deoband. The act came to attention when the woman began shouting due to the man's behavior. Soon, the people around took hold of the man and bashed him while the Police arrived. When questioned about his locality, Mahendar, the perpetrator said that he lived in and around Deoband and again changed the place when the Police asked the same. It was only when they called up his wife did they come to know that he was a resident of Fatehabad, Haryana. Though no complaint was filed by the victim, an FIR was registered under the relevant sections as soon as information was made available to the Police.They claim that the man is mentally unstable and is being shown to a doctor.
The Uttar Pradesh Police on Friday arrested four persons for allegedly composing and uploading a “hate song” on social media, which prescribes a place in the graveyard for those who do not chant ‘Jai Sri Ram’. In a video uploaded on his personal YouTube channel on July 24, Varun Upadhyay appeals to “Hindu brothers, the Bajrang Dal and the Hindu Yuva Vahini” for their support. He also says that the song was not targeted against any caste or religion. “I sang this song for my religion, the religion I love,” he said. Rakesh Kumar Verma, operator of the YouTube channel Janta Musical and Pictures which has 507k subscribers, however, apologised. In a video statement on July 24, he said it was not the intent of his channel to hurt religious or caste sentiments. “...our company will not launch such audio or video [in future],” Mr. Verma said. He said he deleted the video from his channel on the morning of July 22, hours after it had caught the public eye.
A Muslim boy was allegedly beaten up by the family member and relatives of a tribal girl with whom he was supposedly in a relationship. The boy hadn't returned home late on Thursday, when his elder brother received a call informing of his brother being bashed up in the nearby village. The father and brother of the victim reached the location to find the victim in a pool of blood along with his damaged bike. HE was shifted to a hospital and the Police was called for. After being shifted to the Mahavir Hospital in Surat, the boy succumbed to his injuries. Four accused have been rounded up but are yet to be arrested.
VHP Leader Sadhvi Prachi gave a hate-filled speech wherein she pointed out the various reasons far-right thinking was better in all ways than the minorities.
A Christian family was allegedly beaten up by its neighbours in Lucknow and forced to leave the locality on Monday. The Christian couple, living in Nandi Vihar of Chinat area of Lucknow where the majority of members belong to the ‘Thakur’ community, said they were being abused for a long time.
A guide book was found to contain material which spread hate among different communities, especially targeting the Muslims. A product of Raj Hans Publications, the book had highlighted facts against Muslims which could have led to dangerous circumstances. It is quite absurd that this content was found in the 'Efforts to End of Religion Related Stereotype and Prejudices' section, which is actually meant for awareness creation rather than what actually had been printed. The points in this regard explicitly stated that Madrasa's shouldn't be allowed to give Islamic knowledge; those spreading communal hatred should be jailed for a period of 2 years; Muslims should be made aware that they are a part of the Hindu community; 'Jihad' has spread terrorism and it has to be stopped; Communal thought process should be abolished. The owner of Raj Hans Publications apologized when he was shown the material and promised to make sure that any such incident would never take place. The are had become quite tensed once the news of this issue spread but everything cooled down once things were settled.
Two Muslims boys were threatened and forced to chant
A 40-year-old Rosina Nasir, assistant professor at the university’s Centre for the Study of Social Exclusion and Inclusive Policy (CSSEIP), accused vice-chancellor Mamidala Jagadesh Kumar and chairperson of CSSEIP Yagati Chinna Rao of “targeted harassment, exploitation, and discrimination”.She sought intervention from the DMC saying she was being forced to quit her job by the two “powerful” men and that she fears for her and her child’s safety. “It seems to me if I will not quit the faculty position in the CSSEIP, I will be made to disappear like Najeeb (JNU student who went missing three years ago from his hostel and is still untraceable),” the letter says. She lives with her husband and three-year-old son within the JNU campus.
A pre-independence mosque's construction was stopped by Police Officer's of the area on the basis of suspicious activity. They claimed that their SHO asked them to do so. The villagers approached the police to know the reason behind stopping the construction of mosque but the police failed to answer their questions. None of the authorities has been supporting the community of the area, being at the lower-level of governance or higher level. No law-makers have taken up this issue nor ha anyone come forward to help the helpless.
Police said the three were spotted at around 4:30 am at Baniyapur village in Saran district with a pick-up truck that allegedly had cattle. Villagers caught hold of the men and beat them mercilessly until they collapsed. The three men were taken by the police to a nearby hospital in Chhapra. Doctors said they were
A man was allegedly beaten up by a group of people and forced to chant
Ashraf Ali and his family visited the Headquarters of Police today in order to meet the higher ranking officials for the harassment they have to face due to their neighbor Kishan Lal and his son. They also claim to be under pressure to convert to Hinduism by the same neighbors. Ashraf said that his wife's hand was broken by the Boy, who forcefully entered their home and misbehaved with her when she was pregnant, last year. They also made up a fake case of rape, accusing Ashraf, due to which he had to spend 6 months in prison. Events like these have made Ashraf and his family's life, living hell. Officers have looked into the matter and have asked him to visit the next day.
An accident between a bike and a truck turned into a communal riot which led to heavy infrastructural damage. Stone pelting began when the Hindu Yuva Vahini arrived at the call of their mate involved in the accident and then the situation turned into a riot which was then given a pure communal colour. Police arrived at the location and controlled the situation. Muslim population of the area has contacted different personalities asking for their support in this tough situation.
Kankinara has been bubbling with communal tensions since the coming to power of MP Arjun Singh after changing hands with the BJP. A mosque was bombed which led to people of the Muslim community coming out on the streets and protesting for arrest of the perpetrator. Kankinara Railway Station was the center of the protest as the people stopped trains and came onto the railway tracks asking for the authorities to look into the matter since they have been silent and no action has been taken. The protest continued for 2 hours during which the trains were disrupted and the department had a hard time managing the travelers. After the protest was over in the Railway Station, RAF had to come and control the events of a nearby area where the Police had been bombed when they came to resolve an issue. Though the Police claim to have the situation under control, the news says otherwise.
A resident of Deshmukhwadi, in Jalgaon was beaten up by a mob while he was shopping for vegetables from the market. The incident occurred on Monday at 8:45 PM. A normal talk went into a heated argument with some local youths, over six of them attacked Mr. Qureshi and he got severe injuries. According to his statement in a video, “they forced me to chant Jai Shree Ram” Qureshi says and upon his refusal, they started beating him again and again. Later Mr. Qureshi went to the City Police Station to lodge a complaint against youth. The police official issued an arrest memo and sent him to the district hospital for medication.
A Mosque, its adjoining Madrasa and the house next to it were burnt after a rumor of cow-meat spread. The Madrasa was and Mosque were vandalized before being set on fire and the holy scriptures present in the premises were also dealt with in the same manner. Thankfully, no one was present inside the places of worship and knowledge, yet the infrastructural and mental damage have been done to an irreparable extent. The adjacent house also got burnt in this process. The whole area became a pot filled with anger and hate after the incident. The Police arrived and dispersed the crowd that assembled and took control of the situation. Heavy security is out on the streets in order to prevent any untoward incident. Many people have already left the area owing to the atmosphere created, fearing for their safety.
Kalam was travelling by bus towards Samastipur when the bus knocked down a bike and created a commotion. The assembled crowd asked the travelers to get down but Kalam stayed in the bus owing to his luggage being in the trunk of the bus. Some men came into the bus and asked him to get down but upon his refusal, they asked him his name and as soon as he pronounced they jumped on him and bashed him inhumanely. After bashing him, all of the perpetrators ran away thinking he was dead. Someone from the travelers informed his family members about his condition and they arrived at the scene and took him to Kartajpur Medical Hospital. The doctors there asked him to be shifted to Darbhanga Medical College Hospital since his condition was critical.
An eleven years old Madrasa student was brutally assaulted by a group that forced him to chant 'Jai Shri Ram'. The incident took place while the boy was on the way to his Madrasa. The boy sustained serious injuries and was admitted to a nearby hospital. The local residents blocked the traffic at NH 34 and the road was reopened 2 hours later with assurance to arrest the perpetrators. Four were arrested while remaining were absconding.
In an interview with News18, TMC MP Nusrat revealed that she faced brutal criticism and trolling online. She had to go through the clothing controversy, her inter-faith marriage and various other issues in order to remain in power. She said that she had received messages with 'Jai Shri Ram' during Eid which highlight the mentality of the majority. Also, other instances of trolling do take place, but she tends to ignore them, she asserted.
Right-wing activists along with some bystanders halted a vehicle near Kesarbaug bridge in Indore on Sunday morning and beat two persons for allegedly transporting beef. Imran and Nadim, who are both in their 20s, were arrested for violating provisions of the state’s Prohibition of Cow Slaughter Act. Later an inspector confirmed that the two were unhurt and a local veterinary doctor has also confirmed that they were carrying beef along with other meats in their vehicle.
Imlaq ur Rehman, a Muslim cleric was assaulted by 12 youths when he was on the way to his village. The 12 men forced him to chant 'Jai Shri Ram', beaten him and pulled his beard. They also told him to enter the village only with a clean shave. An FIR was lodged against four persons - Kranti Singh, Aditya Shukla, Kamal and one unidentified person - in the case.
Muslim man on Thursday night was allegedly attacked by a group of people at a village in Tamil Nadu for uploading a picture of himself consuming beef soup, police said.  Four people have been arrested in the matter, police added.  Mohammed Faizan, aged 24, of Poravachery had posted the picture on Facebook on Thursday. “Whatever you say, beef is the best,” Faizan wrote with pictures of beef soup on his Facebook page at 3.19 pm on Thursday, unaware of the repercussions that he would face for the innocuous comment and post. Four hours later, the youth had to be admitted to the district headquarters hospital in Nagapattinam after he was attacked by four youth.  The accused group of people objected to the post and went to Faizan's house on Thursday night and questioned him. After a quarrel, they attacked him, police said.  Faizan was injured and admitted to the government hospital.
A group of Madrassa students were brutally attacked when they were playing at the GIC ground in Unnao on Thursday. The students were allegedly forced to chant ‘Jai Shri Ram’, beaten with a cricket bat and their kurtas torn. Four students sustained injuries to their heads and arms. According to Maulana at the Madarasa Naeem Kham, the incident took place on Thursday when students of Darul Uloom Faiz-E-Aam situated in Sadar area of Unnao went out to the GIC ground to play cricket. Police have registered a case in this incident and have identified three accused tracing their Facebook accounts. Accused have purportedly identified themselves as members of Bajrang Dal in their social media accounts. The Imam of Jama Masjid has demanded quick probe into the matter and arrest of the accused at the earliest possible.
Some Hindus in Ghatlodia area of Ahmedabad stopped a Muslim auto-rickshaw driver, abused him, damaged his vehicle and threatened him of the consequences if he was ever seen driving in the area. Shocked by the unruly incident, Qureshi approached an advocate, Imtiyaz Pathan, who took him to the office of Ahmedabad Police Commissioner A K Singh. The cop at the Commissioner's office sent them to Sola High School Polcie Station where an FIR was registered. “After I dropped a passenger near Chandlodiya railway station, I was moving about in Ghatlodia to find a passenger. At around 2 p.m., a passenger waved at me to stop the rickshaw. I stopped my auto-rickshaw and asked him where he wanted to go. The passenger said he wanted to go to Delhi Darwaja and I told him to get in,” said Qureshi in his FIR. “Suddenly, a man rushed there and asked me that how can I, being a Muslim, roam in Ghatlodia and take passengers from here. To this, I told him that I had stopped as the passenger had waved at me to stop. He then got angry at me and abused me. Before I could realise anything, he came up with an iron rod and tried to attack me. I evaded the attack and drove off but my auto rickshaw meter was damaged in the attack
3 people were beaten by local residents of Saugaon and their tempos were stopped and their glasses were also shattered. They were stopped on the ground that they were transporting 20 bulls. The victims that they were beaten for transporting bulls in spite of having required admission letters and they were doing nothing illegal.
A muslim man in Asansol in the state of west bengal allegedly physically assaulted for not chanting
Tempo goods vehicle owned by Umar Farooq was transporting a load of Mango fruits from Ulaibettu to Mangaluru market at about 4:30 am on Sunday. When the vehicle reached near Kulashekhar Silvergate, a gang of three Sangh Parivar miscreants, who approached on a bike, reportedly intercepted the tempo.  The miscreants asked Umar Farooq if the cow was being transported through the goods tempo. Farooq replied that mangoes were being transported in the vehicle. They then abused Farooq over his caste and dragged him out of the vehicle.  Observing the situation, the driver of the vehicle, Ashfaq, ran to his safety; but Farooq was not fortunate enough to save himself from the attack. Consequently, the miscreants assaulted him with a sword and an iron rod before fleeing the location;
16 people were chained together and forced to chant 'Gau Mata ki Jai' for being caught while smuggling cows. A video went viral wherein it showed the men chained together while very strong language was being used against them. Police has registered a case against the smugglers as well as those who made the people chant. 7-8 pick-up truck were also seized.
Barely two weeks after a youth was arrested for forcing some Muslim youths to chant 'Jai Shri Ram', four miscreants in Assam's Barpeta district thrashed three Muslim youths and forced them to chant 'Jai Shri Ram'. According to the police, the incident took place at the Jyoti Gaon area located near the Fakhruddin Ali Ahmed Medical College in the wee hours of Friday when four bike-borne miscreants came to a medical store and thrashed one of its employees, Rakibul Haque. The culprits also caught hold of Kurban Khan and Buran Ali, who worked at a nearby tea stall and verbally abused and thrashed them. They forced the trio to chant ‘Jai Shri Ram’, said Jakir Hussain, President of the West Barpeta Traders' Association. The police have received an FIR and have started an investigation. The police had also seized the motorcycles of the culprits.
Shiv Sena followed in the footsteps of the VHP and filed a memorandum to the District Magistrate asking for a  stoppage on the 2-day Urs Shareef to be held in Islamia Inter-College Ground. They also protested with a group and shouted slogans.
A man was attacked as he was on his way home. Around 10 people surrounded him and questioned his identity. On denying the same, a few of the mob shouted that he was in fact a Muslim and started hitting him. Mohammed Javed Naseem tried resisting them but then they asked him to chant 'Jai Shri Ram' to which he vehemently refused. The mob got furious and became violent. He somehow managed to save himself and reach a safe spot. In a video recording, he claimed that people in the area only watched him get beaten and didn't come forward to help. Grave injuries were inflicted.
A group of people attacked 3 boys and allegedly forced them to chant 'Jai Shri Ram'. The youths, who sustained injuries, were immediately admitted to hospital. They have since been discharged. Aamir Wasim, who had lodged a complaint at the Doranda police station in Ranchi, said he and his friends, Altaf Ali and Ali Ahmed, had gone to the airport area to take photographs. “We were riding our two-wheelers and were in kurta pajama when some people besieged us. Without any provocation, they beat us up and told us to chant Jai Shri Ram. As the crowd got bigger, we fled from the spot,” said Mr. Wasim, and added security personnel near Birsa Munda Airport rescued them.
Atib, an auto driver was assaulted by 3 men when he refused to chant 'Jai Shri Ram' on their order. The family of the victim said that he was driving his auto-rickshaw when the three attackers — Sumit, Rajesh and Shiva — got inside his auto and asked to be dropped at another location. Upon reaching the destination, they started quarrelling with him, claiming they did not have any money to pay the fare. During this, they asked him to chant ‘Jai Shri Ram’ and when Atib refused, took him to the nearby Sulabh toilet and thrashed him.His condition has been reported as serious.
Sunita Singh Gaur, leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party Mahila Morcha in Uttar Pradesh’s Ramkola, tweeted a statement spewing hate. It was later deleted and she was also removed from her post, but the tweet has created waves among the whole Twitter community. “There is only one solution for them (Muslims). Hindu brothers should make a group of 10 and gang rape their (Muslims) mothers and sisters openly on the streets and then hang them in the middle of the bazaar for others to see,” Gaur’s post in Hindi says. She goes on to say that Muslim mothers and sisters should have their “honour looted” as there is “no other way” to “protect India”.
A 16-year-old Muslim boy was allegedly beaten by unidentified men in Kanpur for wearing a traditional skull cap and refusing to chant
A man in West Bengal’s Coochbehar district was beaten up for not uttering ‘Jai Shree Ram’. The incident of Tufanganj surfaced after a video clip was circulated on social media. In the video, a man was being made to do sit-ups holding his ears and forced to say Jai Shree Ram’. The man followed helplessly. The accused been arrested.
Protests began on Sunday after a video of Shanaul Sheikh getting beaten up became viral on social media. Sources in the Police said protesters blocked National Highway 34 and ransacked shops and other establishments in Kaliachak. The protests began after the body of Sheikh, 24, was brought to his hometown, Baishnabhnagar, in Malda, on Sunday. Sources said Sheikh, who had suffered injuries in his private parts, eyes and ears, died in Kolkata after his condition deteriorated. He was referred to Kolkata’s SSKM Hospital by doctors at Malda Medical College and Hospital. Sheikh is survived by his wife and a six-month-old daughter. “He was the family’s only earning member,” his mother Sufiya said. “He worked in a brick kiln. On Wednesday, some people called him outside and we heard later that he was being beaten up.”
Six men in a car waylaid a van transporting cattle in a north Kerala district early on Monday, dragged out the driver and his assistant and assaulted them in a suspected case of cow-vigilantism in the southern state of Kerala. A cow-farm owner who had bought the cattle from Ismail, a seller in neighbouring Karnataka, said he suspected the assailants were local Bajrang Dal members. Kasaragod, in neighbouring Kerala where the van was intercepted on Monday, has also witnessed similar incidents because of the presence of Right-wing groups. The six occupants of the car dragged Hamza and Altaf out of the van, asked them where they were taking the cattle and beat them up even though they had fitness certificates issued by a vet for the cows, the police said, indicating the deal was legal. “I suspect some local Bajrang Dal activists,” Harris told reporters. “I think I know two or three of the attackers as they are well-known faces in Badiyadka,” he said but didn’t reveal any names.
Two people were allegedly beaten up by a mob in Haryana's Gurugram district on Tuesday on the suspicion of smuggling beef. Savita Kataria, the person who led the group, said that the two pickup vans were intercepted by a group of
Accused of theft of a motorcycle, a man was lynched by a mob while being forced to chant slogans like 'Jai Shri Ram'. The mob then hit him for several hours before handing him over to the Police. The Police didn't allow the elder brother of the victim to meet him. He later passed away due to the wounds inflicted by the mob. The main accused has been arrested.
A 25-year-old cab driver from Mumbai allegedly physically assaulted by a group of three men named Mangesh Munde, 30, Anil Surywanshi, 22, and Jaydeep Munde, 26, who are resident of Diva. While driving on Agasan Road in Diva, his vehicle developed some glitch. Khan kept trying to start his vehicle and since it was dark, he had switched on the parking lights,” said an officer from Mumbra police station. He added, “Sometime later, three men riding on a scooter spotted Khan’s vehicle and started abusing him, though Khan was polite to them. The trio, however, dragged Khan out of his car and allegedly started assaulting him. Seeing Khan being beaten up, the passenger fled,” the officer said.  Speaking to Mirror, Khan said, “I told them Allah ke vaste, Mujhe maat maaro, Mujhe chhod do (For God sake, do not hit me, let me go). They then forced me to chant Jai Shri Ram. They kept hitting me until I lost my consciousness. Later I found myself in the car, with my mobile phone stolen.”
A Maulana was hit by a car after refusing to chant 'Jai Shri Ram'. The car had 3 people in it and they had earlier spoken to the Maulana asking for his well-being. The Maulana replied after which they asked him to chant the slogan to which he replied that he wouldn't but they were free to do so. After this conversation he started walking towards the mosque he teaches in but before he could reach, the people in the car hit him in the back due to which he was flung in the air and lost consciousness after falling. A passerby called the Police and brought him to the hospital.
A group of Muslim men were forced to chant slogans like 'Jai Shri Ram', 'Pakistan Muradabad' and were beaten up a less-known right-wing organization called Sri Ram Sena. All Assam Minority Students Union (AAMSU) and the North-East Minorities Students' Union (NEMSU) helped the victims register FIRs against the perpetrators. The incident came to light after a video of the same surfaced on social media.
Twenty-year-old Mohammad Shahrukh Haldar, a resident of Canning, a town in south 24 Parganas was travelling to Hoogly on Thursday afternoon, when a group of people, assaulted and bullied him for sporting a beard and skull cap and refusing to chant Jai Sri Ram on a moving local train, this time in the heart of Kolkata.
Muslim families are being forced to bury their departed in their homes due to lack of a burial ground in a village of Agra. As a result, the dead here are a constant part of day-to-day life and their houses have essentially turned into a graveyard. Women cook next to where their children were buried while the elderly rested on cots in a backyard full of graves. The village has over 50 Muslim families with a population of over 300 but there is no identified permanent place to bury the dead. Majority of these Muslim families are landless and the menfolk work as labourers in the city.
The victim was attacked by the assailants who were in an inebriated state after revealing his name which was 'Nawaz'. They assaulted him saying he was a Muslim and also smashed his windshield. They also assaulted him when he tried to flee away from the scene. It is quite surprising that in a city like Hyderabad, the people around were only mute spectators.
The 19 year-old claimed a group of men who boarded in Rajghat Narora passed remarks and threw his skull cap out before beating him up. An FIR has been lodged against unknown persons.
At least seven Christian families were forced to flee from their homes in the Jharkhand state of India this month after receiving threats and facing harassment from a Hindu mob, a global human rights advocacy group reports.  According to Christian Solidarity Worldwide, which advocates for religious freedom in over 20 countries, the seven families were forced from Masiya Mahuwatoli village on June 12 after a mob of about 200 villagers was riled up by the activist group Hindu Jagran Manch.  HJM is a group affiliated with the Vishva Hindu Parishad, a right-wing Hindu nationalist organization.  The sources explained that the representatives of the HJM made a list of Christian families in the village who would be instructed to recant their faith or face potential consequences. When the families refused the demands to convert, the villagers became violent.  The villagers reportedly threatened the Christian families with excommunication, a ban from using the village road, a ban from accessing community water as well as exclusion from all government rations. Additionally, about 12 kids were said to have been banned from going to the local school. The sources added that the woman who was nine months pregnant, Anima Munda, was forced to walk about four miles to seek refuge in the neighbouring village.  The alleged assault on the Christian community in Masiya Mahuwatoli village is not the first time Christians have been forced out of their villages in Jharkhand state.
A youth was stabbed to death allegedly by his friends for a trivial issue after throwing chilly powder on his eyes, near the private bus stand in the town on Friday midnight.  The victim has been identified as Dayanath Khan (20). The accused have been identified as his friends Lohith and Hemanth. On Friday night, three of his friends took Dayanath Khan from his home for a party. After taking him to the field near the bus stand, they quarreled with him. When the squabble went out of control, the accused have thrown chilly powder on Khan’s eyes and stabbed him to death.
Days after the killing of a two-and-a-half-year-old girl in Aligarh’s Tappal area, a Muslim family traveling to Aligarh attacked by Hindutva mobs in Jattari area, over 40 kilometers from Aligarh. Puja Chauhan, a Hindu woman close family friend who was accompanying the family saved from getting attacked more by the mob on Sunday, 9 June. The incident occurred when the Muslim family from Balabgarh, Haryana, was travelling to Alighar in a van to attend an engagement. The mob identified the travellers since some of the women were wearing veils. Pooja said, “The mob attacked us just because they realized that the travellers were from the other community, as some of the women were wearing veils. Such incidents should not happen with anyone.”  One of the travellers, Shafi Mohammad Abbasi, said the goons on motorcycles attacked the van with iron rods.? ?
Ten Christian families in India have reportedly been driven out of their homes in the Jharkhand state after they refused to renounce their faith in Jesus Christ last month.  International Christian Concern, a nonprofit persecution watchdog based in the U.S., reported Tuesday that the 10 families have not been able to return to their homes in the Pahli village of the Latehar district after they were forced to flee the village for refusing local radicals' demands that they convert to Hinduism.  According to sources who spoke with the charity, the families were summoned to a meeting with the group of local Hindu radicals on June 5 and were given two options: recant their faith or leave the village.
Clashes erupted in Dildarnagar area of Asansol, Bengal, during the Eid Celebrations on Wednesday night. The dispute broke out when a drunken mob who were passing through the Masjid, attacked Muslims while they celebrate Eid-ul-Fitr program. Later the drunken assailants started pelting stones, abusing worshippers, setting the fire and vandalizing motorcycles after they came back with more supporters. Several people injured and admitted to the hospital. Police have brought the situation under control and arrested 25 people in connection with the violence. Although the violence has abated, tension continues to prevail in Dildarnagar area.
Shillong: Extremist mob brutally attacked a naked Muslim man in Ranikor village in Meghalaya’s South West Khasi Hills bordering Bangladesh. The victim is not identified yet. The video went viral in social media. In the video, it is seen that the unidentified victim is screaming “Oh God, Please forgive me” with folded hands and crying for “Allah’s help” but the assailants continued showing blows on his face and chest, and even kick him in the genital area. The reason and time for the mob attack still remain unclear. Meghalaya Police filed a case no. 5(6)19 u/s 365/442/506/34 IPC r/w sec 66E IT act with the Ranikor police and accordingly arrested one accused assailant. Meghalaya Police chief R. Chandranathan said that police has directed by him to initiate action against those involved in the barbaric attack. Police stated to refrain from spreading rumours and misinformation and assured justice through its official Facebook page.
Muslims of Naya Bans in Bulandshahr district still live gripped by the fear. The hunting and torturing continue even one year after the Bulandshahr violence. The attacks strengthened after the ultra-nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) returned to power and Narendra Modi is all set to become Prime Minister of India for the second consecutive term.  At this juncture, where no longer these polarized two communities can live together happily with peace and harmony in the village, Muslims are thinking to leave the area where they were born, grew up and have gained their assets to escape from their attacks. Most of them are shifting to Dasna and Masuri, where they stay paying rent or with their relatives.  On the day of result declaration, when the poll result announced, Muslims were irritated while offering prayers at the mosque. More than 250 people marched to Masjid and started bursting firecrackers outside the main gate. later the crowd went to each Muslim houses, started playing DJ music in loud volume and continued for an hour. The hope lost Muslim community has no way other than the migration. But the poor and less-earning Muslims are at risk, they can't migrate to somewhere else due to lack of enough money in their pockets. One of the villagers responded when he asked about forced migration
Lucknow: Five Muslim women, belonging to one family, stopped from travelling on the Lucknow Metro after they refused to remove their veils. The incident took place at Maiwaiya station on Tuesday when these five women, along with their male relative, were going to take a Metro train from Mavaiayya metro station to Alambagh metro station. In the station, the male guards stopped women and asked them to take off their burqa in front of them. The women refused to take off their veils in front of the men guards.  The women had no objections about being frisked and checked by women security personnel. But there were no women security personnel at the station. When they refused to take off,  male security guards refused to allow the group to board the Metro.  The family later asked the officials for a refund and gave up their plans to travel.  The head of the family, Maaz Ahmad, has now sent a complaint to the Lucknow Metro Rail Corporation (LMRC). In the complaint letter sent to the Managing Director he wrote narrating the incident
Nizamabad: The Village Development Committee, an unauthorized body, in Balkonda, Nizamabad district, declared a social and commercial boycott of Muslims last week. They decided to levy a heavy penalty on those who maintain any social or commercial relations with the Muslims in the village. The boycott imposed to pressurize Muslim community to give up the claim over the graveyard.  The dilemma emerged when some Hindus tried to occupy the burial ground illegally which owes to Muslims after destroying a few graves. Then Muslims lodged a complaint against the invaders and the police took an action against accused. It made them upset and anger. After the boycott declaration, Muslims were facing extreme difficulties in the holy month of Ramazan owing to the ‘unlawful restrictions.’ Access to shops, markets, and public places were denied. Even the Muslim families living for rent in the Hindu owned houses were asked to vacate the property. The committee said that any person who speaks with a Muslim will be penalized with Rs 5000 and if he or she drinks tea at a Muslim owned restaurant the penalty will be Rs. 20,000. Also, if a non-Muslim buys anything from a general store of a Muslim he would be levied with a fine of Rs 20,000. The non-Muslim will also be penalized for traveling in auto-rickshaws driven by Muslims. The local administration and public across India reacted strongly condemning the boycott. The local police which had not acted upon the complaint lodged by the Mosque committee on boycott earlier moved in and registered cases against those who were behind the illegal act. They counselled both groups on Wednesday evening and organised an Iftar party for both at Jama Masjid in Balkonda. Balkonda SI T. Hari said that issues between some families led to the social boycott. “We registered three cases against 30 VDC members and a few others under IPC sections 385, 290 and 506,” he said.
Post 2019 election result has witnessed an increase of assault incidents on people when they don't say 'Jai shri Ram'. In an another incident, a Latvian was attacked with knife on throat by a Hindu for not replying to 'Ram Ram' in Mathura. Victim was on tour in India and used to chant hymns on Radhakund Mathura. Reported incident took place on the Kund where a man named 'Rishi' approched the victim and asked to reply 'Ram Ram' to  which he kept quiet. The victim slapped the assaulter when he asked him again to reply to 'Ram Ram'. In return he was attacked by knife on his threat. Such kind of incidents are serious threat to India's long cherished legacy of 'Secularism'. India's image at a global level is at stake due to such incidents. These have to be controlled urgently and effectively.
Muslim youth in Delhi’s Jaitpur threatened, abused and beaten badly by a mob for being a Muslim. He was rescued by the relatives of his Hindu friend who reached just in time to save him. The incident happened on May 28 when Mohammad Sajid, a resident of Jaitpur Extension Part 2, was returning home from the shop with his friend Gaurav. When they reached near Gurudwara of Jaitpur, a mob of miscreants rushed upon them, looted and attacked. While Gaurav managed to escape, Sajid was caught up and assaulted brutally. After knowing the fact that Sajid is a Muslim, they beat violently with chains and rods and shouted that kill the beast.  They hurt the religious sentiments of Sajid by uttering the sentences like bring the meat of pig and force him to eat, cut his beard, pass urine in his mouth and etc. They captured all the scene using a mobile camera and made it viral. “My friend Gaurav and I were returning to our home. I was talking with my sister on the phone. When we reached Molad Band area, two youths called Gaurav from behind and ask him to come to them. We went near them. They shook hands with us and took our phone. Then they took us to a nearby lane. When we asked our phones to be returned they took out blades and put them on our throats asking us to hand over our belongings to them. Now they kicked on my chest and I screamed Allah, then one of them said, He is a Mullah, a Muslim, kill him. Later they took Gaurav away from me. After some time, one of the attackers came and shouted your friend has run away.” “It was the mother and grandmother of my friend Gaurav who saved my life. If it weren’t for them, who came just in time to save me, I would have been killed by the attackers as they were planning to take me to ‘Peer Baba’ (nearby shrine) to finish me off,” said Sajid on a positive note.  After Sajid was brutally beaten, his mother responded that now I just want justice for my son and want to say that no one should be targeted the way my son has been attacked. My son is very scared. He has just come out of the mouth of death. His fears grow at night. We can’t leave him alone because he gets anxious. When he comes near the door and looks outside, he tells us that it scares him. We do not sleep the whole night because of him. There is panic in his mind.”
Three men in Raipur vandalised a dairy run by muslim man on suspicion of carrying beef trade. These men who claimed themselves “gau rakshaks”, or cow vigilantes, allegedly entered the dairy in the city’s Gokul Nagar area and assaulted people in the shop. The next morning, a group of at least 50 members of right-wing groups, including the Bajrang Dal, chanted slogans at the DD Nagar police station. They demanded that a first information report be registered against Qureshi on cow slaughter charges. They accused the police of bias and claimed they had found “bones” behind the shop. The police said no evidence of cow slaughter had been found yet. A Congress government is in power in the state.

“Qasim sells soap, detergent, etc. A fight broke out between Qasim and one Rajiv over the price of detergent. Rajiv took out a country-made pistol and shot him. He’s undergoing treatment, the probe is on.” Begusarai DSP, as quoted by ANI Qasim, a detergent salesman, had gone to Kumbhi village on his motorbike on work. In the video, he is seen saying, “A man named Rajiv Yadav asked me my name. When I told him, he fired at me and told me to go to Pakistan.”
“One of the men called me with an offensive word and told me that skullcap was not allowed in this area. When I told him that I was returning from a mosque, he slapped me. He also asked me to chant Bharat Mata Ki Jai and Jai Shri Ram. When I refused, he threatened to feed me pork,” Mohammad Barkat said. Mohammad Barkat, 25, was returning to his shop around 10 p.m. on Saturday after offering prayers at Jama Masjid in Gurugram when a group of about half a dozen men allegedly accosted him outside a sweet shop and told him to remove his skull cap.
Three Muslims including a woman was thrashed by self-proclaimed gau rakshaks over rumours of carrying beef in Seoni, Madhya Pradesh. The victims allege they were forced to say slogans of ’Jai Shree Ram’ by the accused.
Recently suicided post-graduate student Dr. Payal Tadvi is a new victim of Savarna Hindutva. The 26-year-old junior doctor found dead hanging in her hostel room at BYL Nair Hospital in Mumbai on May 22. The thing that led her to the latter ending of her life was the continuing torture, torment, and harassment from three Savarna Hindu seniors. All three seniors hated to share the hostel room with a Muslim lady coming from the Adivasi background. They ragged her when they felt discomfort and indignity in staying with her. It is so sad that those who study all part of human body forgot to study a good soul.  Mrs. Vidya Bhushan Rawat calls it a murder, a crime which was not merely of racial hatred but also looked like Islamophobia as she belonged to a tribal community practising the Islamic faith. Payal belonged to the Bhil community which has about 2.7% of people practising Islam around Maharashtra. The total number of Bhils and Gonds in India is nearly 2.8 crore, which is 27% of the total Adivasi population in India. Among the Muslim Tribal communities, 1.32 lakhs live in Jammu and Kashmir and 1.12 lakh hail from Maharashtra where Bhils are the biggest tribal community, where Islam is one of the practising faiths. Dr. Payal was killed by the three seniors becoming a  victim of hate crime where her tribal identity practicing Islamic faith might have further aggravated her troubles. Insulting Dalits and Adivasis, humiliating them, compelling them to commit suicide, and attacking them had become a habit of Savarna Hindus. Dr. Payal died of this habit. The atmosphere in these so-called institutions of merit should change because they are so suffocating with Brahmanical arrogance that it kills the students from the Dalit Bahujan Communities. The government should address this issue and deal as prior agenda to win ‘sabka Vishwas’, the trust of all. The three Savarna doctors must be prosecuted with stringent laws so that this becomes an example but we know very well that the government and its officers have never been sincere in following the constitution and implementing the rule of law. Otherwise, Dr. Payal would not have died.  Where are the institutional mechanisms to protect SC/ST students? Her death is an institutional killing like that of Rohit Vemula and the BYL Nair Hospital, Mumbai cannot give up its accountability in this regard. Why are institutional mechanisms not strong to deal with the discrimination which is rampant in our educational institutions? Why was there no 'committee' which could have acted against these three girls? If there is a committee then what did it do? Who are the members of the committee? Are there SC/ST members in these committees? Can we trust those committees where no member belongs to these communities?
Tensions ran high in Jammu and Kashmir’s Chenab valley following the killing of a 50-year-old man in an alleged case of cow vigilantism on Thursday.  The incident took place around 2 am when the man along with two others was transporting cattle to their village, Bhadarwah’s Mohalla Qilla, were fired upon. While the two others escaped with minor injuries, Naeem Ahmad Shah (50) was killed on spot after the “vigilantes” fired at them. A video has surfaced showing a group of young men throwing stones at the homes of people of a particular community. The police used tear gas to break up the mob.  An official said the mob had attacked a police station and damaged several vehicles on Thursday morning, prompting the administration to seek the army’s help. Internet services have been suspended in the area. Bhaderwah is a communally sensitive town where Muslims have a slender majority. Parvez Ahmad Sheikh, head of the religious body Anjuman-i-Islam Bhaderwah, blamed Sangh parivar outfits for Shah’s death and called for a shutdown on Friday. Mohammad Iqbal Khan, a relative of the victim, said that Nayeem was returning home from Kathua where he had gone to purchase horses when he was fired upon and died instantly.
Riyaz Ahmed, a 45-year-old watchmaker who is selling watches for two decades in the city, accused falsely as terrorists by local news channels has been cleared of any wrongdoing by the police. Riyaz's picture was beamed as a suspect terrorist after a security incident at the city’s Majestic metro station, involving an unidentified person carrying metallic objects, set off an alarm. The man refused to be frisked and left the station after he was refused entry. after seeing his picture through the media, Riyaz himself came forward to the police station and presented in front of the police. the local news channels broadcasted rumours about him as a suspected terrorist with no evidence to back up. later he said to media that  “I was projected as a terror suspect. They said I have come to the city to carry out a terrorist attack similar to what happened in Sri Lanka. I am a poor watchmaker with a wife and children to support. This is my country. This is where I was born, and this is where I will die. I never thought I will be branded as a terrorist one day,”. Responding to the case police said that “With no evidence, some media channels marked Riyaz out and said he was also a terror suspect. He has been selling watches in Majestic for over two decades now. We cleared him after a thorough background check,”. Riyaz has filed a complaint against Public TV channel, the local news network which falsely projected him as a ‘terrorist’. City Police Commissioner T. Suneel Kumar blamed the media for creating an unwarranted fear psychosis among citizens and warned them against reckless rumour mongering.
Muslim pediatrician was thrashed by unidentified men near Ardee City on Friday night. Dr. Nurul, who lives near Wazirabad village in Sector 52, was returning home after purchasing milk for iftar in his vehicle when the incident took place. First, they came after beef, now they don’t need any reason at all. In yet another anti-Muslim hate crime in Gurugram. I work as a pediatrician with a private hospital and at present preparing for DM-Cardiology exam. I was returning after buying milk for Iftar in my Baleno car. Suddenly, two men came in a white Fortuner and started abusing me without any reason. When I told them that they are on the wrong side of the road, they called 8-9 more men who brutally thrashed me with sticks. I tried calling police but due to injuries, I fell unconscious on the roadside. Later, the police reached on spot and rushed me to the Civil Hospital,” Nurul told the police.  The 30-year-old doctor has received multiple injuries on his head, eyes, face, and legs. Dr. Nurul said he heard two of them say that he was a Muslim and that the community should leave the city otherwise riots will take place.
At least 15 people were injured in a communal clash in Hailakandi district in Assam on 10th May 2019. The local administration imposed a curfew soon after the clash. Three police constables were among those injured. Several shops and motorbikes were also damaged. Prohibitory orders were imposed in Hailakandi town in Assam on Friday following the clash. Of those injured, the condition of three was stated to be critical, officials said, adding more than 15 vehicles were damaged and 12 shops vandalized in different parts of the town. Mohneesh Mishra, Hailakandi’s police chief, told Scroll.in that the clashes began when a group of Muslim men assembled on a public road in front of the old mosque at Marwari Patti and said they will offer prayers on the street. “The other group tried to stop [them] and that led to an argument,” said Mishra, while adding that heavy security had been deployed in the area.
Police was informed by a dairy owner at 6 am on Wednesday that two of his cows were lying dead in Sanjay Jheel Park opposite Kotla village, said a senior police officer. For lack of enough space, the dairy owner would usually leave his cows in the park where they used to gaze. However, when the dairy owner visited the park in the morning, he found that two of them were missing, police said.  Later, he found the two cows died in the park following which he informed the police, the officer said. When the police reached the spot, they found that the two cows had been killed while others were safe. The dairy owner's son said his family was in the dairy business for the last 40 years, and they had 15 cows.
The victims, Mohammad Giyasuddin  and his son Anwarul Haque, had purchased 15 kg of beef for the ‘rukhsati’ of a bride. They were stopped by BSF jawans and asked to disclose the contents in their bag. Upon seeing the beef, they were taken to an outpost and were assaulted and beaten. Despite being constantly telling that the beef was for a family function, the meat was buried. Anwarul was admitted to the Islampur hospital for a week while Giyasuddin was taken to the Lodhi primary health centre for medical aid and treatment. A complaint was filed in Goalpokher police.
48-year-old Mohammed Istekhar attacked brutally by a mob on suspicion of carrying beef in  Begusarai district of Bihar. The police filed FIR only against Istekhar for carrying cow meat and freed the accused mob. The attack happened on Mohammed Istekhar’s way back to home, he was riding his bicycle after purchasing buffalo meet from the Teghra market. He was followed by a few drunk men in the Aalapur village who decided to stop and harass him. They dragged him to a nearby field and started beating with sticks, iron rods, and with the butt of a gun. Hospitalized Istekhar is in very critical condition due to severe injuries they made. Family members said that we didn’t buy the cow meat at all and it was buffalo meat along with chicken and mutton for a special program arranged at the home.   Istekhar’s brother-in-law Mohammed Mumtaaz said that this kind of attack happens, but things had aggravated further due to the election time and Begusarai is a contentious seat. He added further, “It was not beef but buffalo meat and the government has permitted the sale of buffalo legally. So  people buy and sell it regularly, then why is it a problem?”
A Muslim man Mohammed Sharif has been lynched by a mob in Bihar’s Supaul district after the victim hit a cyclist at Nunupatti of Sadar police station in the district. The incident made the relatives of the deceased outraged and subsequently, they blocked the Nunu Patti chowk demanding the arrest of the culprits. Sharif, a father of four small girls, hails from Supaul’s Itahari village. According to media reports, the incident happened when Sharif was heading toward Supaul from his village. On the way at Nunu Patti village, he hit a man riding on cycle. After hearing about the incident, the locals surrounded Sharif and started beating him brutally.
An ailing elderly prisoner was allegedly assaulted by cops at Kota hospital in Rajasthan five days ago. The person identified as Mohammad Ramzan, 60, died late Friday night. His family is not giving permission for an autopsy before registration of FIR against the erring cops and announcement of compensation. Ramzan, a resident of Mangrol in Baran district in the state, was convicted in a case in 1992 and awarded two years imprisonment. He got bail and moved the high court challenging the lower court order. When the high court upheld the lower court order, his bail was canceled and he was sent to prison in 2018. He was sick. Some days back, his condition worsened. The jail sent him to the district hospital for treatment, from where he was referred to Kota hospital in Kota district. At the Kota hospital five days ago, some cops who were staying with him at the hospital assaulted him. They were drunk. They also hurled communal abuses at him. As he was already sick, after the beating his condition worsened and he died late Friday night.”
Sadhvi Pragya Singh Thakur, BJP's candidate (selected as MP now) from Bhopal for Lok Sabha elections, makes the controversial remark while speaking to a television channel. Malegaon blast accused Thakur remarked that she does not regret demolishing the Babri Majid structure in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992, and is proud of her participation in the demolition of the Babri Masjid in Ayodhya. The Election Commission of India sent show-cause notice.  In this exclusive interview with AajTak, Sadhvi Pragya said further,
Muslim inmate of Tihar jail has accused a prison superintendent of branding him with the symbol “Om” on his back and denying him food for two days. A Delhi magistrate’s court on Wednesday issued a notice to Tihar director-general of police Ajay Kashyap seeking an inquiry report. It directed that the complainant, Shabbir, be “removed from the direct or indirect supervision” of Rajesh Chauhan, superintendent of Jail No. 4. “The accused has been subjected to cruelty and inhuman treatment in jail by jail superintendent Rajesh Chauhan. It is alleged that on 12.04.2019, the jail superintendent had burn-imprinted (the) symbol ‘Om’ on the back of the accused and has also deprived him (of) food for two days,” the court said. “Necessary CCTV footage is collected and statement of other inmates were also taken in this regard…. It is further directed that necessary arrangements be made to ensure the safety of the accused in jail and he is immediately removed from the direct or indirect supervision of jail superintendent Rajesh Chauhan.” Shabbir, who faces trial in an arms case, had narrated the alleged incident to a family member who informed his lawyer. The lawyer filed the application after meeting Shabbir in the jail on April 16. Kashyap said a deputy inspector-general was conducting the inquiry. “The inmate has been shifted to another jail (inside Tihar), as advised by the court,” he said. “The allegations… are of serious nature and required immediate intervention,” the court said, asking the prison authorities to get Shabbir medically examined “with immediate effect”.
BJP workers in Bengaluru targeted a lone Muslim woman at her home in Bommanahalli and forcefully removed a green flag from her apartment. Reportedly, the men were campaigning for Tejasvi Surya, the party’s Bengaluru South candidate.  According to the video of the incident that has now gone viral on the internet, a group of BJP men is seen confronting the woman on her balcony and asking her to chant ‘Bharat Mata Ki Jai’. The men are seen removing the flag from the balcony of the woman’s residence and deriding her for hoisting the flag, which they refer as ‘Pakistani’.
One person was killed and three others were injured when a mob attacked them for allegedly cutting the flesh of a dead bull in Jharkhand’s Gumla district, police said on Thursday. Three persons were injured when a clash broke out over the dead bull at Jurmi village in Dumri, around 140km from Ranchi, on 10 April 2019 night.  PTI quoted deputy inspector-general of police A.V. Homkar as saying that a group of people spotted the four persons cutting the flesh of the dead bull and started beating them up. One of them died, he said. The dead person has been identified as Prakash Lakra. Sources said the group that raised the objections came from another village.
Two Muslims saeed go back to his village and work with his father and a tad works for another company when they were denied jobs by Oppo mobile company because of their religious identity. According to the victims they were working in the company already but they got a two-month break, with the promise of hiring again. Company contractor calls him for an interview and promises to call within two days but when they were not called then call the contractor on which he shouts on them and told them what is your name and Oppo is not hiring Muslims and in the form, there is a religion column in the list while in shortlisted listed person list there is no religion column. Azad got another job in Noida while saeed goes back to his village.
A 23-year-old youth slated to get married on May 3 has been hospitalized for kidney complications, after he was brutally tortured by the police near his residence at DJ Halli in Bengaluru on the night of April 10. The victim, Mohammed Tanveer, was spat on, abused for his faith and savagely thrashed by several policemen inside DJ Halli police station over trivial reasons. The incident came to light after his brother Mohammed Musaveer filed a complaint against the police officers with Bengaluru Police Commissioner T Suneel Kumar on Saturday.
An inter-faith couple Tuesday approached the Delhi High Court seeking police protection, alleging that the woman’s family was threatening them. The plea alleged that the woman’s uncle, who she claimed is associated with the BJP and Hindu Sena, has threatened to “kill” her. Seeking to enforce their ‘Right to Life and Personal Liberty’, the couple, in their plea filed in the name of the woman, said the two are adults and that she had married the man of her “own free will”. Advocate Utkarsh Singh, who filed the petition on behalf of the woman, said the two met in March 2016, while the woman was working with a telecom company in Mumbai. The plea stated that the couple performed nikaah last month and the woman changed her name after conversion. It also highlighted the manner in which the woman was pressured by her parents after she disclosed her relationship with the man.
An old man Hussein Saab, who was returning from the mosque on April 9. Around 10 Bajrang Dal activists allegedly attacked Hussein Saab, used foul language, thrashed him and also threatened him to leave the village. A case has been registered against Vishwanath, Kanteppa, PB Basappa and five others under section 149 IPC, including Section 143, 147, 341, 504, 323, 506 at the Maski Police Station.
Eight members of Muslim family were brutally assaulted for raising disagreement over building a new construction after demolishing the old Haveli by the accused. Victim's family alleged that one of their female family member was molested by the accused which ultimately became the immediate cause of the incident. Muslim family was beaten mercilessly with iron rods, sticks and stones in the ensued battle. It has also been alleged by the victim's family that police was dull and inactive in the whole incident even after repeated complaints of threats and hooliganism from the accused side.
A Muslim man was brutally attacked and beaten up by the mob over selling beef in Assam’s Biswanath district. He was forced to eat pork as punishment by locals. Reports suggest that police have detained at least five people after the video of the incident went viral on social media. The man was seen on his knees in deep slush, begging to let him go. Shaukat Ali, 68, was thrashed brutally and was accused of being a Bangladeshi. He is currently being treated at a government hospital.
Members of a right-wing Hindu outfit on Saturday claimed to have shut over 250 meat shops and chicken outlets here on the first day of Navratri festival. He said they visited sectors 4,5,7,9, 10, 21, 22, Palam Vihar, Badshahpur, Om Vihar, Surat Nagar, Sadar Bazar, Anaj Mandi Dhanwapur, Dundahera, Molaheda, Sikandarpur, and many other places. Around 50 percent of shops were already closed fearing clashes, as meat shops were shut during every Navratri since the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) came to power in the Centre and in Haryana, he added.
A 22-year-old Muslim girl from Meerut was allegedly harassed by inebriated classmates for refusing to put on a BJP cap during their college trip to Agra. Narrating the incident, the survivor tweeted:
A mob of some 200 Hindu radicals demolished a Catholic school in Tamil Nadu and stripped some of the nuns who teach there, attempting to strangle them with their rosaries. No part of the school building was spared, as the activists devastated classrooms, smashed desks and windows, and wreaked havoc on the auditorium. Four of the nuns and two other school staff members were hospitalized for injuries after the attack. This violence was sparked by the suicide of a 15-year-old girl, disappointed by her bad school results.
People of two communities clashed with each other which changed into a communal clash. According to the report when one woman of another community fixing a nail for drying clothes on an under-construction wall around a burial ground the member of Muslim community objected. After this, from both sides, people entered into a heated conversation and attack on each other with sticks and started threw stones on each other. people also threw stones on police and police arrested 17 peoples and in this clash two peoples sustained fractures and 7 persons got a minor injury. According to police, they use tear gas to get a situation under control and start a combine operation to catch the peoples.
Three peoples assaulted by a group of cow vigilantes in Alwar when they were coming from a cattle fair. According to the victims, the mob chased and stopped them and start beating them. Police arrested one person when he was trying to flee. According to the police  Raesh Khan purchased six cattle from the trade fair with legal Documents.
In connection with the communal tension which had occurred last month in Saidabad area, police arrested nine persons including a police constable. It may be recalled that in a minor road accident which occurred on 25th March, some miscreants had physically assaulted four Muslim youths which spread tension in the area. In this connection, the police had registered two separate cases. With the help of CCTV footage and videos obtained from other sources, police found the involvement of constable by name M. Vinay, resident of Harijan locality, Saidabad. In addition to him, N. Surinder and Sai were arrested. Saidabad Police had earlier, registered a separate case of stone pelting in which police arrested M. Satyanarsimha Venkat Rao, A. Vidya Sagar, K. Kishore Kumar, Shaikh Akbar, and two minors. Saidabad police also implicated Syed Fayazuddin alias Tarana Fayaz, Mohtashim Billa and Mohammed Wasif. It may be mentioned that the minor road accident had turned into communal violence.
Tension gripped Kaithal’s Badsui village after a clash between Hindus and Sikhs over a piece of land left a person dead and 14 others injured.  According to the people's the land is divided between Hindu shrine and Sikhs Gurudwara but people of one community built the wall because of which other community also jumps into the matter and start throwing stones on each other and use sticks.  In this clash, one person suffers head injury due to which he declared dead by the doctors.  According to the police they registered the case against 36 unknown people's and detained 16 for questioning.  The deceased, Shamsher Singh Punia, 54, was cremated amid heavy police deployment.
The incident took place on the day of Holi when a muslim family was playing cricket in a barren plot outside their house. The perpetrators came on bike and threaten them to go to Pakistan and play there. They came back with with spears and lathis and brutally assaulted the family inside their house. They also robbed the jewelry of the muslim woman. Six had been arrested.
Mohammad Anwar is lynched by a group of 20 people's in Sonbhadra district because he stops those people who are going to demolish the place where Tazia is being placed from last 15-20 years. Anwar comes from Ajmer Sharif one day before he was lynched.   In the past also there is a clash between peoples on that place, but this time Mohammad Anwar was beaten by sticks and then he dragged and chopped from the Axe. The main accused is a school teacher Ravindra Kharvar. Main accused also runs the branch of RSS in that area from last few days. According to the Police when they reach the hospital Anwar was Declared dead by the Doctors. Anwar son told that five months ago there was a dispute regarding the Imam Chowk, whose information was given to the police, on which the assurance was received that now there will be no quarrel, but
On March 20, a group of Christians participating in a prayer meeting in West Bengal was attacked by a group of suspected Hindu radicals. The assault left several participants injured and the pastor leading the meeting hospitalized. The attack took place on the morning of March 20 at approximately 7 a.m. in the village of Paschim Bardhaman. Members of the Full Gospel Evangelical Church had gathered in a church member’s house for a prayer meeting led by Rev. Anand Hari. After about 15 to 20 minutes, 20 suspected Hindu radicals broke into the house and attacked.   Shibu Thomas one of the members present and The leader of Persecution Relief, said, “People suddenly broke into the house and started hitting everyone present with fists, kicks, and sticks. They then fled, leaving the wounded on the ground. The attackers did not spare even the women.” Rev. Hari took the brunt of the assault and was severely beaten by the attackers. Following the assault, he was transported to a local government hospital where he is still recovering.       .
Kashmiri student Absar Zahoor Dhar was assaulted by a group of four man's.  According to the victim, the main accused Nithin accused him of eve-teasing on 19 March and warm them and want that they leave the coffee shop.  Next day they came with iron rods and dragged him out of ice cream shop and start assaulting him due to which he suffers from injuries on head,  head, and face. He was saved by her friends. He is in a panic right now and not attending classes because all the accused obtained bail. All accused are residents of Kundalahalli Colony.
Four Christians, including an ill 16-year-old, were dragged down the stairs and outside a private house where they were having a prayer meeting in India’s Tamil Nadu state. A Christian student named Siddappa was hosting the meeting in his house in Kurubatti, in the city of Hosur, when the violence took place. The prayer session was being attended also by another Indian citizen named Neethiraj, of the India Evangelical Mission, his friend named Chandrakant and his sick 16-year-old relative. Their meeting was abruptly interrupted just minutes after it began by more than a dozen men who raided the home and reached them on the upper floor on March 19.  The Christians were manhandled, dragged down the stairs and taken to the middle of the street outside Siddappa’s home, where the abuse continued.  Attackers emptied the bag of Neethiraj on the street as it contained religious texts.  They then gathered all the Bibles and Christian books they could find in the house only to force the four Christian to burn them with some petrol they brought with them, according to local sources.  The Christians said their assaulters were from the Hindu Front and the Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP), the religious arm of the RSS, a Hindu nationalist movement.  Nehemiah Christie, Director of Legislation & Regulations of the Synod of Pentecostal Churches in Tamil Nadu, highlighted how risky it is now for Christians to simply gather in the area. She said: “Any Christian gatherings are now at risk of being interrupted by Hindutva forces.
Shakoor Ahmad Shah was on his way to collect money from a customer when 4 men attacked him. They abused him and assaulted him and when he showed some resistance they took out a sword and attacked him. They fled the scene when Shakoor fell on the ground and took his bag with them. The bag contained 1,95,000 rupees and some important documents according to Shakoor. Ajaz Ahmad Dar, a fellow Kashmiri shawl vendor came to his rescue but it took him almost 45 minutes to reach there. Till then, no one came to help Shakoor.
Muslim father and son physically assaulted and their beards were shaved by anti-social elements. Both victims were getting threat also if they go to the police then goons will kill them. According to the victims, they were stopped by 4 peoples and they interrogate them and start abusing and then beat both the victims. Police registered the FIR on the charges of hurting religious sentiments.
22-year-old man Vakil Khan was hit with a rod on his chest, and prima facie died of internal injuries by a group of molesters who had passed lewd comments on his sister when she was returning home after coaching class in Kudwa village, Haidernagar police station area, Palamu, Jharkhand. While 20-year-old Danish Khan’s health continues to be serious. Reportedly, Vakil and Danish had come to the Khardiha village to complaint against youths who were teasing their sister, once the accused came to know about the situation, they, along with other villagers attacked the two. The police have taken the statement of Danish, while the body of the deceased has been sent for the post-mortem.
Ashfaq, who witnessed the killings of his two brothers -- Nawab and Shahid -- during the riots was shot dead in Khatoli on Monday. The next hearing of his brothers' case was on March 25.
2 Kashmiri dry fruit sellers were attacked on 6th March on Daliganj bridge in Lucknow. The attackers were members of a right winged group called Vishwa Hindu Dal. The two victims had been selling dry fruits on the same location for 22 years and were traumatised by the attack as nothing like this has ever happened to them.
Over 200 houses were burnt in the Bhusa Mandi slum of Meerut, Uttar Pradesh on 6th March. The local police says that their plan was to remove the people from their homes who they claim have illegally encroached the land. The people whose houses were burnt blame the police for burning heir homes. They say they have nothing left, no home, no personal belongings and no money.
Two Muslim men, who were detained for questioning in connection with their suspected involvement in a loot and murder case last month, were allegedly beaten to death in custody in Bihar’s Sitamarhi district. Eight policemen who were suspended for their involvement in the murder, are all absconding. The two were picked up on March 5 by Sitamarhi’s Runnisaidpur police and were detained at Dumra station, where they were tortured, leading to their death. Both the victims died within 20 hours of being detained by the police.
On 27 February, the manager of Karachi bakery's outlet in Bengaluru has claimed to receive a call threatening to blast the bakery if the word 'Karachi' is not removed from it. Earlier on 22 February, a group of 15-20 unidentified men came asking questions about if there were Muslim employees working in the Karachi Bakery. They forced the employees to cover the 'Karachi' on their board and put a national flag above it.
On February 25, tribals from the Gujjar minority community were thrashed by a group of right-wing activists in Samba district in Jammu. According to reports, two local tribals: Mushtaq Ahmad Chowdary and Mohammad Ashraf Chowdary were on the way to their destination when an RSS mob caught hold of them in Vijaypur area of Samba and forced them to chant “nationalist slogans”. A video of the two being thrashed and being forced to chant slogans in favor of “Bharat Mata” and against Pakistan went viral on social media with netizens demanding authorities to take strict action against the culprits. He said ever since the Pulwama attack the Muslims in the area are being provoked deliberately by the Hindu-right wing parties. When TwoCircles.net raised the issue with Dr. Koshal Sharma, Senior Superintendent of Police, Samba said the police have taken cognizance of the video and have started an investigation. “We are verifying the video…strict action will be taken against the culprits after the investigation,” he added.
While the whole nation was celebrating the attack on terror camps of Jaish-e-Mohammed some communal people attacked muslims, their houses and mosques in Hapur. Muslim women were harassed and trash was thrown inside the mosque. The imam of the mosque was also assaulted but the police had trivialized the incident and no arrest had been made.
A video that went viral on social media has revealed an incident that took place in Samba district of Jammu. Two people belonging to a minor community of Gujjars were beaten badly by some goons for not saying 'Pakistan Murdabad'. The perpetrators were holding a tricolour flag.
In Yavatmal Maharashtra four Kashmiri students were beaten by the Yuva Sena. They are studying at the  Dayabhai Patel College of Physical Education. Activists of Yuva Sena find them outside their home and when they told them that they are from Kashmir they start beating them and force them to chant
Three Kashmiri shawl sellers were beaten up in Delhi by the peoples and snatched all their belonging. According to the victims in which compartment they sit is empty only two male and female passengers were in the compartment and The male passengers had been throwing hostile glances at them ever since they boarded the train and shouted loudly and start abusing them and claimed that they are army personals and start beating them and after this  at least 20 peoples came from neighboring compartment and start beating them with belts and throw them out of the train. They call the police also but because no response comes from police they go to the hospital in west Delhi.
Rahul Roushan, CEO of right-wing news portal OpIndia had tweeted asking gau rakshaks to “indulge in largescale mindless violence” rather than carrying out “sundry lynchings.” He later deleted the post, which was a reply to a tweet by lawyer and activist Prashant Bhushan. “It is imp to understand why so many young men in Kashmir are becoming militants and willing to die,” Bhushan had tweeted.  This person is followed by Narendra Modi
Union Minister Giriraj Singh accused veteran actor Naseeruddin Shah and film maker Kamal Hassan of islam-ising in the nation. He accused them to be members of pakistani Ghazwa-e-hind which means 'islamisation' of India. The incident occurred after Shah remarked on lynchings in India and Kamal remarked on plebiscite in Kashmir followed by terrorist attack in Kashmir.
A mob attacked a kashmiri shawl trader at his rented accommodation in Taherpur, Nadia. The victim was living with his younger brother and belongs to Budgam. The incident took place at night and it came into light after the video had gone viral on whatapp which show that the perpetrators forced him to say
A man was seen shouting 'Pakistan Murdabad' as a tactic to sell shoes in a busy market. He then asked a burqa-clad women passing by with her family to shout the same.
Mahesh Vikram Hegde, co-founder of web news portal Postcard News, on 18 February Monday, tweeted that the final nail in the coffin of terrorism can come only when the Hindus make a surgical strike on the “business of M.” This 'M' denotes Muslims.  This twitter handle is followed by 'Narendra Modi'
Some miscreants, carrying out a rally against Pakistan after Pulwama terror attack, thrashed a muslim businessman in Hyderabad. Perpetrators accused him of raising Pakistani slogans but the victim denied so. He accused them of beating him because of his head cap which shows that he is a muslim. The police registered the case as a fight after a road accident and not as hate crime.
On February 17, about 300 individuals belonging to the Muslim community, in a representation to the Amreli district collector, have complained that the policemen, forest staff and electrical staff of the Pashchim Gujarat Vij Nigam raided 40 houses of Semardi village of Dhari taluka belonging to the minorities and looted them. Men, women and children were beaten up indiscriminately and the mod destroyed their personal properties.
Dr. Siddiqui told Indian Express,
Kashmiri students are being evicted in Dehradun, capital of Uttarakhand post Pulwama. The landlords say they fear an attack on their property if they do not evict them.
On February 16, Muslims of Talekhan village, Lingsagur Tehsil, Raichur District in Karnataka had gathered for the Jummah namaz in the afternoon when members of RSS barged in and beat up the worshippers and drove them away. Then, the miscreants set fire to the prayer mats, the green flags of the adjacent dargah, wall posters of Kaaba and other materials inside the mosque. They even beat up some of the villagers who tried to stop them and filed a complaint with the police alleging that they were celebrating the Pulwama bomb blast and raised Pro-Pakistan slogans.
A day after Pulwama attack, a 12th standard student and her younger brother were singled out by a group of boys in their school because they are Muslims and were forced to chant
Some right wing goons attacked muslim locality of Jammu city despite the curfew imposed after the terrorist attack which killed 44 army men and injured others. Vehicles and property belonging to muslims were set on fire while security forces watched the act silently.
Around 12 Kashmiri students were beaten up by right wing goons in Dehardun. The incident took place while the students were returning after performing friday namaz and the goons suddenly started beating them. Two of them were seriously injured. When inquired , Vishwa Hindu Parishad's Shyam Sharma and Bajrang Dal's convener Vikas Verma did not deny the attack and said that they would ensure no kashmiri muslim stay in the city.
Retired Major General of Indian Army calls for the killing of Kashmiris on the large scale and compare it with the terrorism and who they tackle it in the 1980s in Punjab. He said, catch and kill those who support them on the local level. And, gives a statement on Human Rights Activists.
Around 34 Kashmiri students were attacked in university canteen by Maharashtrian students of the same university. Their hostel rooms were ransacked and window panes were smashed. Four of them were injured. Their lockers were broken and they were threatened for the consequences if they stayed in college.
A hindu man from Uttar Pradesh was arrested in Hyderabad for attempting to promote enmity between communities. The man tied lemons in Masjid–e-Nazaria at Patigadda, Begumpet and left palm prints on its wall which could had erupted communal violence in the area. The man was arrested by the police within four hours while he was digging in a temple.
Unidentified criminals killed cattle trader by slitting the throat
A christian convert was beheaded by hindu locals who were threatening him to re-embrace hinduism. The family embraced christianity a year ago and was constantly threatened and beaten by hindu locals, they shifted out of the village.  Anant, father of 5, was found beheaded a day after hindu locals threatened them to re-embrace hinduism or die.
BJP MLA T Raja Singh had made sensational remark against muslims to leave India if they don't cow or say
Krishna Goud, Manoj Goud and four of their companions who are associated with Hindu fundamentalist organizations attacked five youths and threatened them to leave the country. After abusing them, the miscreants pelted stones at the masjid resulting in the breakage of window panes.
The residents of Tatina village, Meerut thrashed one of the four on the suspicion of cow slaughter while the other three managed to escape. Later, the accusations were found to be true, two were arrested while police was raiding for the other two.
In an event organized to celebrate 10 years of Oscar-winning movie
BJP mayor from Agra calls AMU hub of terrorists. He gives a statement because on the permission of Tiranga Yatra AMU administration issues notice and he supports a statement by saying that when Afzal Guru, Bharani wani dies they offer Namaz and called AMU a hub of Anti-Nationals and terrorists. On the other hand, he wants the Muslim in AMU is removed because India is a secular country but on BHU he said Hinduism is a way of life and culture, not a religion.
A Christian Preacher was assaulted by the OBC right wing of BJP because he is distributed pamphlets and promoted Christianity in the town. After this, the workers of BJP are entered into an altercation with the preacher and start assaulting him and took them to a Mariamman temple in Melatheru, Ariyalur. They apply holy ash on the head of the Christian preacher. the accused trio was arrested by Ariyalur police and remanded under judicial custody till February 15.
As per reports, a Dalit boy named Pramod son of Jaini Prasad, had gone to bring a bucket of water from a nearby RO plant around 8 pm on Sunday. When he was returning, two Muslim boys identified as Shahrukh and Salman allegedly made Pramod trip and fall down which led to a confrontation between them.  As per reports, when Pramod reached with his family members to confront Salman and Shahrukh, men named Yusuf, Akram and others had already gathered more than a hundred of their supporters. The violent mob then proceeded to attack the houses of the Dalit community in the area. Communal tension erupted in Teela Nandram of Mantola area in Agra on Sunday night after violent clashes took place between the Dalit and the Muslim communities.
A 48 years old man from Ahmedabad held in Chennai for posting offensive post against the Muslims. He was booked under several sections of IPC and he was arrested and taken to the police commissioner before producing him to the Court.
A post graduate muslim woman was denied entry in examination hall with her headscarf on. The higher officials also denied the rights saying,
Police Commissioner T.R. Suresh said that the sequence of events leading to the demolition of the Babri Masjid was enacted during the 10-minute-long skit. As this skit had the potential to incite communal hatred, the Ullal Police Inspector took suo motu cognisance of the play and booked Mr. Jokatte, as he was the one who had sought permission for the expo. SDPI had organized Babri Expo programme near Sayyed Madani Dargah, Ullal on February 1 this year, demanding reconstruction of Babri Masjid. A short play showing crashing of the mosque, performing puja of Lord Rama, and RSS leaders going in procession with ringing bells in their hands, was staged on the occasion. The police personnel who were present at the spot had reported the matter to senior police officials, duly attaching video clip of the programme.
Mohammed Asad, a home guard working at Goshamahal police station was denied permission when he asked his seniors to offer namaz at a short distance Malakunta masjid. The senior police officer Mahesh and Krishna stopped home guard Asad belonging Goshamahal police station was stopped from offering Friday prayer.
Bajrang Dal workers on Thursday attacked two aged women and burnt their two tents at APMC market alleging that the women were selling beef food.  The victims were identified as Khamarunnisa (79) and Shamshad (70) of Balegadde.  The women have been selling non-vegetarian food in tents for the last 40 years and leading their lives. But on Thursday, around 8 Bajrang Dal workers are said to have attacked the women alleging that they had been preparing beef food. The saffron workers burnt their tents as well.  They also poured the hot sambar on the women and warned of burning them if they continue their business there.
In Bidanasi Cuttack, orrisa four peoples were brutally assaulted and the vehicle is burned by the locals on the suspicion of cow smuggling. The four injured, however, have been admitted to SCB Medical College and Hospital here for treatment.
infamous for his crass statements on women, religion and even the Constitution, Uttara Kannada MP Anantkumar Hegde outdid himself on Sunday. In a display of crude Islamophobia and misogyny, Anantkumar Hegde targeted Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee President Dinesh Gundu Rao's wife in a tweet.
A Muslim teacher in a Bihar school was thrashed brutally by the locals as he had refused to sing ‘Vande Mataram’ on the occasion of Republic Day. Apparently, a video of the incident went viral on social media where the Muslim teacher, identified as Afzal Hussain, could be seen allegedly thrashed by some local residents after a scuffle broke out over the former’s refusal to sing Vande Mataram at a primary school in Abdullahpur in Bihar’s Katihar district.
A miscreant attacked a Muslim man named Mohammed Abdul Jahangir who was crossing the police station with his sister on hijab, on bike and suddenly some persons of other community starts stabbing him without any specific reason.
Livestock was reportedly being transported by a vehicle through Vitla Saletturu on Friday night. Based on the information, Bajarangadal activists followed the vehicle and examined it at Kadambu. They later informed the police who reportedly took the vehicle into their custody.  As hundreds of people gathered at the spot, the two groups exchanged heated arguments forcing the police to resort lathi-charge.  Then a mob gathered at Kadambu junction, and leaders of the two groups exchanged heated verbal. Subsequently, additional police force rushed to the spot and resorted to lathicharge.

Altercation between people belonging to Pardhi tribe  and Muslims community resulted in a communal tension
A travel agent, Qazi Najamuddin, was arrested from Mumbai airport while he was trying to flee the country after filing of complaint against him. Qazi posted a blasphemous remark on facebook against the companions of prophet which had hurt religious sentiments of the muslim community.
A 38-year-old Muslim man,Abdul Raheem was arrested by Lucknow police on a suspicion of theft and was brutally tortured by police and he succumbed to death.
Senior BJP leader Kavinder Gupta alleged that Shah Faesal, who had resigned from the IAS last week, may have got money from Pakistan. Faesal, who was the 2010-batch IAS topper, had quit his job to protest against the “unabated killings” in Kashmir and the “marginalization of Muslims by Hindutva forces at the hands of Hindutva forces”. He said that if Faesal really wanted to do something for the people of J&K, he should resume his work as an officer. “The way Shah Faesal thinks proves that he may have got some offer from Pakistan”, Gupta said.
A mob of locals at Tiger Point in Lonavla physically assaulted a Muslim family from Baroda, molested girls and women over a petty dispute of camel ride payment. The incident took place around 6 pm when a horseman demanded more money than the fixed amount which he earlier agreed for the horse-riding of their children. When some of the family members objected the horseman started abusing them and suddenly many horsemen came around and attacked the family. Those injured are Aasim Memon (32), Sufiyan Memon (30) and Ahmed Memon (28). The police initially refused to register an FIR, but when the pressure was built up they wrote a complaint after five hours of the incident. The FIR lodged stated that gold valuables, cash and an expensive watch worth Rs 91,900 were stolen by the attackers. The police have arrested 6 persons for the same.
Pork was found inside the compound wall of the Jamia Mosque at Nagoor near Byndoor late on Monday night.  According to the police, pork was thrown at around 10.55 p.m. inside the compound wall of the mosque on Monday.
A 13 years old girl of the only muslim family in Ramban village of Jammu was raped by the local hindus. The girl was grazing cattle when she was caught by the accused and, on pleading to let go, was beaten. Out of threat she didn't tell anyone about the incident till she realized that she was pregnant. On approaching the accused, he gave him some medicines which caused excessive bleeding. The girl was admitted in Ramban Hospital and later in Jammu Hospital to undergo abortion as her life was at risk because of the pregnancy. To mark, a year ago another muslim girl was gang-raped in Kathua. Muslims in the area live in fear and threat. People protested against the slow investigation and alleged that the rape was another attempt to remove muslims from Jammu.
Hardline local Hindus razed a church building in Narnepadu village, Muppalla Mandal, Guntur District, in the state of Andhra Pradesh, because it was built on the west side of a village, which they claimed violated Hindu principles of placement and positioning. That morning the village president’s husband, also a local political leader, telephoned church pastor Koteswara Rao and asked him to be present at the meeting to discuss the matter, but Rao declined the invite as he was pre-occupied with his tasks for the day and said that he can be available the following day. This annoyed the leader, and he ordered the tribal men to demolish the church. The church had met in a rented shed in the same area in 2017, but tribal and upper-caste Hindus who strongly believe in Vastu Shastra collected more than 100 signatures expressing their objection to Christian worship in the location.  “There has been opposition, and it had been dealt with peacefully so far as we understand that villagers do not have awareness about our rights, and do not really understand why Christians gather for prayers,” Pastor Lazarus said. “Most of the residents are illiterate and only follow the instructions of the village elders: If the elders think having a church to the west is evil, it is evil. They don’t try to reason beyond that.”
4 member of Tablighi Jamaat were illegally detained from Tundala Station and were released later.
Around 300 people attacked the man, kicking and hitting him with sticks, a 55-year-old man in Bihar’s Araria district was killed. The incident took place on December 29 in Simarbani village, about 300 km from Patna.
a 23-year Muslim man beaten by a mob for allegedly smuggling cow in Rajasthan. and FIR was lodged against the victim of mob violence and arrested Sagir Khan for illegally transporting the cattle.
In Noida Authority imposed a ban over the Namaz in the Park of Sector 58. According to the Authority of Noida, they ban Namaz over the report the Police. In an alleged video showing bajrang dal activists threaten to leave the place.
Remnants of cow carcass found on the roof of a local house in Rohru lead to the attacks on more than 18 shops that belonged to the community. Markets remained closed to prevent the mishap. Some people fled from the area out of fear of attack. The local political and social activists said that the incident was an attempt to divert the attention of the people from the failures of BJP.
Gau Rakshakes again physically assaulted a man who takes the cows to the government shelter from the temporary shelter. According to the witnesses, Cow Vigilantes takes ut a driver and beat him without any Enquiry and the Home Guards came and save that man from those peoples. In this atmosphere of terror cows get panic and rushed the place due to which a cow also dies.
In Kolhapur district of Maharashtra group of 15-20 Person attack at the church during the prayer. At the time of the incidents, there are up to 40 peoples in the church are gathered for offering prayer. A lady in Church throws chilly powder o their faces after which they run. maharashtra police identified 5 peoples with the help of CCTV footage. They attack with Rods, Swords, Glass bottles and also pelting stones on the Church.
A Muslim girl is not permitted to sit in the exam of NET in Sector 16 Rohini, New Delhi because she refused to remove Hijab. According, to the Victim officials not permitted him in the exam when she said there are no instructions about the Hijab, and follow their religion is their Fundamental right. According to the professor of Jamia Milia Islamia,
a Kashmiri youth, whose identity is yet to be ascertained, can be seen getting beaten up by locals in Fatehpur town of Sikar district in Rajasthan. he youth who is believed to be a student was allegedly beaten up by the locals, called a
The Special Investigation Team (SIT) found the four Muslim men innocent, they were accused of cow slaughter that led to violence in Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahar.  Sharfuddin, Sajid, Asif, and Nanhe Miya were arrested based on a complaint filed by district’s Bajrang Dal leader Yogesh Raj(main accused in Bulandshahr violence and cop murder ), who accused them of slaughtering cows.
Slain cop Subodh Kumar Singh’s wife alleged that her husband’s murder was a pre-planned conspiracy While talking to reporters she said Subodh used to get death threats. As per officials, SHO Kumar was trying to control the wild mob and was wounded in the head with a stone. Although the driver tried to take him to a hospital in the vehicle, the mob chased the car and shot the police officer after cornering it in a field. Two people have been arrested in connection with the killing, while five others have been detained.  The First Information Report lodged in the case lists 27 people and has around 60 unnamed accused, say reports. Another FIR has also been registered – regarding alleged cattle slaughter that preceded the Bulandshahr violence.
In Hirapur district of Jammu and Kashmir angry local mob set fire in a truck on the news that he carries bovines. Driver and Conductor escaped from the place when he know about Mob. Protesters tries to block Jammu - Pathankot Highway. In response Police fires tear gas and use baton on the protesters.
VHP leader Manjunath Swami is accused of insulting people who follow Islam faith. In his speech, he had said that Islam is not a religion at all, that Quran is not a religious book and that Islam provokes terrorism.
Union Minister Giriraj Singh calls Deoband
20 Years boy Irshad Ahmed was encountered by the U.P. Police. According to the police story he is carrying bulls in pick up truck and chased by police then they fire on police in counter attack Irshad killed and according to the family and neighbors he is sleeping outside the house and he doesn't know driving and there is no crime on Irshad in past also.
Meghalaya governor Tathagata Roy on the 10th anniversary of 26/11 Mumbai attacks and tweeted a controversial remark against Muslims
New Delhi: At least five persons were injured when two groups clashed in northeast Delhi’s Kabootar Bazar on Friday evening. Both the sides pelted stones and glass bottles at each other. Senior police officers visited the area and additional forces were deployed to maintain law and order. DCP (northeast) Atul Kumar Thakur said that cross FIRs have been registered under various sections at the Welcome police station. Five people have been arrested so far, with more likely to be caught. A preliminary probe revealed that the incident happened outside a mosque in the afternoon. Police said that the argument emanated when the imam of the mosque went to a function of an opposition group. Soon, a scuffle ensued with more than a dozen men from each side pelting stones and glass bottles at each other. Jamshed, a shopkeeper in Kabootar Bazar, said that he had gone to the mosque to offer namaz when the incident happened. He saw the two groups attacking each other.
Eid Milad-un-Nabi procession by the minority community was disrupted and attacked by right-wing VHP activists in Kanpur.
A truck conductor carrying 30 buffaloes from North Gujarat’s Deesa to South Gujarat’s Bharuch was stabbed with a sharp-edged weapon by unidentified gau-rakshaks in Ahmedabad’s Ramol on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday. The injured conductor has been identified as Zaheer Qureshi, a resident of Deesa in Banaskantha district. Around 12.30 AM some unidentified persons claiming themselves to be ‘gau-rakshaks’ tried to stop the truck. Soon, Qureshi and Sipai saw police at some distance on the highway and hence stopped the truck. He said he tried to run away out of fear when two unidentified persons came on a two-wheeler and one of them stabbed him with a sharp-edged knife-like weapon. He fell unconscious thereafter and gained consciousness in hospital. The truck was carrying around 30 buffaloes from Deesa in North Gujarat to Bharuch in South Gujarat for slaughtering without mandatory papers and permission, said the police.
Three women's belongs to Antarrashtriya Hindu Parishad offered Puja inside the 400 years mosque inside Taj Mahal. They lit
fter allegedly making several inflammatory comments Prophet Mohammed and Tipu Sultan last week, in the run-up to the Karnataka state government’s celebrations of Tipu Jayanti, journalist Santosh Thammaiah has been arrested and booked under Section 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings or any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) of the Indian Penal Code.  The editor of right-leaning magazine Aseema, Thammaiah, according to the complaint filed against him, had said: “It was because of the Prophet’s ideologies that Tipu Sultan carried out terrorist acts.” Thammaiah made the comments at an event organized by Hindutva group Pragnya Kaveri titled ‘Tipu Karaala Mukha Anaavarana’ (the exposure of Tipu’s dark side). He is editor of magazine ‘Aseema’
Nearly 200 Muslims have been booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) after communal clashes took place between two communities during the Durga idol procession on October 20 in the Bahraich district of Uttar Pradesh.  The violence saw deliberate damage to Muslim shops and households in the presence of police, so much so that almost all Muslim families in the area had to flee.
CHRISTIANS were attacked and beaten with hockey sticks by dozens of violent members of a Hindu militant organization in the latest episode of religious persecution in India. The vicious attack took place in Agra, an Indian city in the northern state of Uttar Pradesh, on October 30.  The Christians, five men, and two women were leading a prayer meeting at a local hotel. According to one of them, the Christians gathered had just finished a music programme when the violence broke down. The seven were severely beaten, before been handed over to the police by their attackers, in a twisted turn of the events. The thugs justified their assault by claiming the Christians gathered were trying to forcefully convert Hindus.
An eight-year-old madrasa student, identified as Mohammad Azeem, was beaten to death by some people in the Begumpur locality of Malviya Nagar area in Delhi on Thursday. Police have sent the body for post-mortem. None of the accused have been arrested yet.
A woman accused two Bangalore based landlords of discrimination on the basis of her religion who allegedly refused to rent out their premises to her family when they got know that she is a Muslim.  Heena Rehman (name changed), the co-founder of an organisation,  posted her experience on Facebook and Twitter where she accused two Bengaluru-based landlords of discrimination because of her religion. The post had gone viral, drawing support as well as criticism.  Heena had found those two homes matching her family's requirements on Nestaway, an online portal for house rental ads, approached their owners and they denied to rent out their premises to her. She took on Nestaway and asked:
Bihar’s Sitamarhi witnessed clashes between two groups after a Durga Puja procession was not allowed to pass through a particular area, resulting in the death of one person.  The mob then dragged Ansari, assaulted him brutally and burnt him alive at the spot. On 20 October, a Durga Puja procession was denied entry through a Muslim-dominated area in Bihar’s Sitamarhi. According to the local police officials, a prior warning had been issued to avoid any clashes.
Uttar Pradesh’s Bareilly College witnessed the members of Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) threaten to burn a van carrying Urdu literature books. This incident stands testimony to the general atmosphere in the country where there is a constant attempt to create hatred in the name of religion, caste and regionalism. uddenly, a group of ABVP members reached there demanding to know what kind of books they are selling. On being informed that they were carrying Urdu literature, they were asked to vacate the campus immediately, or face dire consequences.  According to a local Hindi newspaper, the ABVP members claimed that they will allow Urdu books for selling in the college if there will be a Sanskrit department in Aligarh Muslim University. However, they are ignoring the fact that there is a separate department for Sanskrit already in the University.  Imran Khan, a post graduate student of the college told Newsclick, “Few people from Delhi came to our college in a van carrying Urdu books. There were different kinds of books related to Urdu literature, history, etc. Suddenly, at least eight members of ABVP reached the spot, and following  an argument with the book-seller, asked them to vacate the college otherwise they will burn the van. They did this despite knowing that those people were working under the HRD Ministry.”
Six policemen were injured when they tried to intervene in a clash between members of two communities over installing a Durga idol in Sisaye Salon locality in Bahraich, Uttar Pradesh.  Some people tried to install the idol of Goddess Durga in the Risiya police station area without permission of the authorities concerned. People from the other community objected to it, leading to a clash. Members of both communities then indulged in brick-batting, he said. The clashing groups also attacked the police team rushed to control the situation.
The Shiv Sena and another Hindu organisation claimed to have forcibly shut around 400 meat and chicken shops at different locations here on Wednesday, demanding that they remain closed during Navaratri. Chief of Shiv Sena's Gurgaon unit Gautam Saini told PTI that around 300 members of different Hindu organisations assembled at the Lord Shiva temple located at the Old Railway road on Wednesday morning and headed to different places to close meat shops. forcibly shut down meat markets in Surat Nagar, Ashok Vihar, Sector 5 and 9, Pataudi Chowk, Jacobpura, Sadar Bazaar, Khandsa Anaj Mandi, Bus Stand, DLF area, Sohna and Sector 14. They said 50 per cent of the shops are already closed amid fears of clashes, State president of Hindu Sena Ritu Raj said,
A youth was thrashed by activists of a saffron outfit in Varanasi on Thursday for allegedly Propagating Christianity. The mob beat the Vinod Maurya alleging after converting to Christianity, Maurya was influencing his friends to convert.
Kashmiri student was beaten up after a fight broke out between groups of Indian and Afghan students at a private university in Greater Noida on Thursday, prompting police to book over 350 students for rioting and related offences, officials said. An Indian student from Kashmir was roughed up by other Indian students who are said to have posted provocative messages on a WhatsApp group from the side of the Afghan students involved in the fight on Monday. These Indian students were apparently aggrieved over the university’s lackadaisical approach on the matter,” a senior police official told PTI. “The police have taken the cognisance of the case on its own. The Indian student has suffered minor injuries, more of punches and slaps, but was sent for medical examination so that it could be checked if there is any internal injury or not,” the police official told PTI.
Zakir Hussain, a resident of Mangaldoi in Assam, was attacked with lathis on suspicion of cow theft by a mob. Three others, including two policemen, who tried to rescue the man were also roughed up by the mob. The assault was recorded on video by onlookers. Police registered a case under charges of rioting, assaulting public servant and attempt to murder. Assam police arrested three people and detained a minor for allegedly attacking the man who later died.
Police allegedly beat up the Meerut woman for having a Muslim friend A Muslim man and his Hindu friend who was targeted by right-wing activists in Meerut on Sunday have accused police of misbehaving with them instead of trying to prevent the attackers from beating him up mercilessly. The man said he was accused by the group -- allegedly affiliated to the right-wing Vishwa Hindu Parishad -- of indulging in
A man succumbed to his injuries after allegedly being beaten up by villagers for fishing near a temple in Rajasthan’s Chittorgarh district last week, Hindustan Times reported. Following the incident, a case of murder was filed against unidentified people by the police, but no one has been arrested yet, the report added. According to the police, 22-year-old victim Azhar Khan had gone to the banks of Ruparel river in Kheri village on 17 September along with three others, when some people purportedly stopped them. While three of them ended up escaping, the mob caught hold of Azhar and beat him up with bamboo sticks. admitted to the district hospital in Chittorgarh and subsequently taken to Udaipur medical college, where he died on 22 September.
An MBA student is lynched in Manipur's Imphal on suspicion of vehicle theft. A mob of 13 people attacked Md Farooq and the mob also destroyed a car in which Farooque and two others were traveling. A joint action committee (JAC) formed by residents of Lilong Haoreibi in connection with the incident claimed that Farooque was innocent and an MBA student. He had left home to meet a friend, it said on Friday. The JAC convened a public meeting on Saturday to discuss the future course of action in connection with the lynching. The Manipur Police on Sunday said four officers have been suspended after a purported video showed armed police personnel present at the spot when a group of people lynched a man on suspicion of vehicle theft, reported The Indian Express. Another video of the incident shows that minutes before he died, Khan, had asked for water. The group of men standing around him had refused and only said: “You have come all the way to steal so why are you asking for water?”. According to Makakmayum Baadshah, Khan was a “young, budding” entrepreneur. “Other than running a restaurant, Khan had another business in manufacturing, in which he produced packed fried-meat items. To upgrade this venture, he had got a loan amount sanctioned also through a government scheme. Had he been alive today, Farooque would have got the loan amount and progressed with his business venture,” he said. “He always smiled and was a fun-loving person. He had returned to Manipur in 2016 after his MBA and started off on his entrepreneurial plans.”
Within 15 days in U.P. Jaunpur there are 12 attacks over christian community. The right wing Hindutva followers hosted Bhagwa flag on the church and stone -pelting is also done at the spot of tension.
A 22-year-old man who was home from Dubai was lynched in Uttar Pradesh, allegedly by villagers who suspected that he had stolen a buffalo. The incident was reported from Bholapur Hindoliya village in Bareilly district late on Tuesday night. According to the police, the villagers called them and told them that Shahrukh Khan and three of his friends were trying to steal a buffalo. Mr Khan's family has rubbished the theft allegations.
A mini-truck carrying bones and other remains of animals sacrificed on Bakrid was attacked at Bholanath colony in Moradabad and was set ablazed.  A group of men on motorcycles had attacked the truck and beaten up the driver.
A mob attacked the house of a Muslim family in Haryana’s Rohtak on Wednesday, accusing them of beating a calf to death. The mob suspected that the calf was to be slaughtered on the occasion of Eid-ul-Zuha.  the mob allegedly attacked Yameen’s house, forcing the family to flee. Rohtak superintendent of Police Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said the police had not received a formal complaint from the victims.
Villagers attacked a group of policemen when they tried to prevent illegal cow slaughter on Eid al-Adha in Jharkhand's Pakur district, leaving four cops injured.
50 year old Fakir Mohammed Syed was ferrying cattle when he was intercepted by 3 self-styled gau rakshaks and was assaulted. While he has been booked for ferrying livestock without permission under Cruelty to Animals Act, his assailants have been booked for assault and criminal intimidation.
Bhure a Muslim man was intercepted by cow vigilantes on the suspicion of smuggling cow meat. He was assaulted by the mob after they found meat in plastic packets and was then handed to the Nigohi police station. Then a video surfaced where the police are shown opening the bag and forcing Bhure to pick up the meat from his mouth and put it back in front of the villagers.
In Hisar Haryana, four students of law and a Sikh family clashed with each other because the students called them outsiders and hurt their religious sentiments. After, that other the group clashed and one of them kicked on the stomach of pregnant women and other beats the family members. In response, they attacked over them with their
Activists of a ‘gau Raksha dal’ in Uttar Pradesh’s Shamli district on Monday beat up two people they suspected of transporting cows for slaughter before handing them over to police, police said. He also said that action would also be initiated against the vigilantes for taking the law into their hands by thrashing the accused, identified as Shamshaad and Shahzad, before bringing them to the Adarsh Mandi police station. “Anuj Bansal has been identified as the leader of the ‘gau Raksha dal’. The investigation is underway to identify his aides,” Singh said.
An adivasi man was lynched and three others were injured in Assam’s Biswanath district after a mob assaulted them on suspicion of cattle theft early on Thursday morning, police said. Deben Rajbongshi, 35, and three others were attacked at Line No.15 area of the Diplunga Tea estate in Sootea, Biswanath. While Rajbongshi succumbed, the three others— Phoolchan Sahoo, Bijay Nayak & Pujan Ghatowar — were being treated at a hospital. A fifth person reportedly escaped
spokesman of the organization Hindu Yuva Morcha announcing that if any Hindu boy whether it is Brahmin, Kshatriya, Shudra or Vaishya, marries a Muslim girl, then he will get 2.5 lakh rupees. Apart from this, he will also get free food and stay for six months.  The spokesman said that the Yuva Morcha would also take the responsibility of protecting the duo.
A Twenty-four-year-old alumnus of Jamia Millia Islamia University allegedly physically abused and threatened by a group of 5-6 young men. Narrating the incident in a Facebook post, the victim identified as Daud Arif said, “It was a holiday so there were people celebrating Independence Day right under my house. Five to six men were playing loud music outside my house, and it was only around 8 PM that I asked my landlord to intervene. When I stepped out of my house to approach him, I saw someone had urinated on my door and in front of my house.”  The incident unfolded when Daud objected to the urination in front of the room and brought the matter to his landlord. The boys, who were drunk, got violent for complaining to the landowner. The two of them also said, “Tu Musalman Haina Tujhe mar Dalenge Aur Hamara Kuch Bhi Nahi Hoga” (You are a Muslim, we can kill you and we won’t even get a scratch).
According to the police, the incident took place on Thursday night on the outskirts of Bahraula village, where one family was staying. According to the Sadar police station SHO Devender Singh, the family said that three thieves were trying to steal cattle.  Other villagers were awoken by the ensuing chaos and managed to catch one of the alleged cattle thieves and beat the boy to death. However, two of the men managed to escape, Singh told The Quint. The man's hands and legs were tied and he was thrashed by three men in Bahrola village in Palwal, Haryana police said
They can treat us when we are ill, but can't be our neighbours. This
Zafaruddin is a Dhaba owner in gurgaon sec29 who went to buy some grocery items in the market, two local goon forcefully went him to saloon and cut his beard. Zafaruddin a muslim boy, and in Islam having beard is a religious practice which many muslim strictly follows all over the world and forcefully cutting the beard of a muslim man is a sign of hate based on religious identity. Two youth start harassing and started assaulting on zafaruddin and tied him with rope on saloon and started cutting his beard.
Three men allegedly transporting cattle for slaughter were beaten up at Hajipur in Vaishali district. The mob dragged out the three men in the vehicle and assaulted them in full public view.
A Muslim youth was beaten up by members of a right-wing Hindu organization on Monday afternoon at a Ghaziabad court for attempting to marry a Hindu woman. Police says Sahil, a native of Bhopal, who works at a company in Noida met Preeti Singh, a native of Bijnore district in Western UP, who also works in the same company. “After they fell in love, they decided to marry as their parents were not agreeing. The girl is a Rajput by caste and the man was Muslim. The couple wanted to register their marriage at Ghaziabad court as a friend told that it is safe and easy process there,” a police official said.
Hasim a shop in Nuh, Mewat was carrying grocery items from Delhi on 24th July night, on the highway members of Gau Raksha dal stopped the truck and start beating Hashim and alleged that he is cattle smuggler. He was severely by a mob of 10 and got severely injured.
65-year old man was attacked by alleged cow vigilantes in Ramsoo village of Ramban, Jammu. The man was carrying his buffalo when he was attacked by the accused and was injured severely. Police denied the attack to be of cow vigilante because according to the police neither was there any mob of 70 people nor was there any cow (as alleged by the people). According to the police, it was an attack over some personal enmity while the people denied it.
“Main musalman hun, yehi mera gunah hai? (Is being Muslim my sin?)”, says a Jharkhand police officer repeatedly in a video which has gone viral on social media. Local BJP workers and leaders gathered at the Doranda police station in Ranchi after Dhiraj Ram, 39, was shot dead in the early hours last Wednesday. They charged that station in-charge Abid Khan had ‘deliberately’ not taken action in the case. The police officer, who has a good reputation among the common people, was upset. In the video Mr. Khan is seen expressing his anguish, while standing among the crowd. Meanwhile, the police arrested four persons, Md Ali Khan, Md Arif, Md Salman Ansari and Md Chand Ansari, all residents of Doranda, in the case on Saturday. They were remanded in judicial custody on Sunday.
Praveen Tiwari and a driver Ahmed Ali were assaulted by the Toll Staff and other people's because they think that they transport animals for slaughtering. Police came there 15-20minutes late and arrested 5 persons . According to the Praveen he runs a diary for which he buys 7 cows in 2.25 lakhs and mob also taken away Rs. 7000.
A man named Akbar Khan was beaten to death by a mob, who accused him of cow smuggling in Rajasthan’s Alwar district on Friday, 20 July.  Before Taking Mob Victim To Hospital, Rajasthan Cops Arranged Cow Shelter. An eyewitness also told NDTV that she saw the police beating the injured man. additional superintendent of police of Alwar, Anil Beniwal, said they will make arrests soon.
The pastor of a church was shot dead by two motorcycle-borne assailants at Salem Tabri locality on 15 July, 2017. The victim was identified as pastor Sultan Masih. Two armed youths with their faces covered shot at the pastor from a close range.  The bike-borne assailants fired multiple shots at the pastor, killing him on the spot. He sustained two bullet injuries in the chest and one in the head. At the time of the incident, Masih was standing outside the church and talking to someone on his mobile phone. He was rushed to DMC Hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. His son Rahul Masih said his father, who was in-charge of the ‘The Temple of God Church’ in Slem Tabri locality, had been living here for the last 30 years and had no enmity with anybody. Masih ran a school for poor children inside the Temple of God church.  Members of the community assembled outside the church and expressed anger at the attack. Police Commissioner RN Dhoke later visited the scene and urged them to maintain peace. Dhoke said CCTV cameras installed at the church captured the images of the assailants, but they could not be identified since it was dark.
Kubaisi’s wife Zaibunnisa said that the four had set off from Hyderabad Friday morning to meet a relative at Bidar and attend a social function. “When they stopped for tea near a school at Murki village in Aurad taluka at about 4.30 pm, they saw school children heading home. Salham started handing out foreign chocolates, which he was carrying, to students. However, someone raised an alarm that strangers were luring kids with chocolates and people started gathering immediately,” Her wife said. Aurad Police Station, in whose area the lynching took place, said that three WhatsApp administrators who circulated the photos and messages that the four men were child kidnappers have been arrested. “We have also arrested 30 people who were part of the mob,’’ the official said.
In Lisari village Meerut people's of Muslim community ready to sell their houses because of the communal bias has done by the local people and police on the instructions of the leaders. They tell that every incident is changed into the communal clash and police also write the FIR(First Information Report) of another party but refuse when they appeal because they are
A hawker from Uttar Pradesh was lynched and two others injured on Thursday after a mob in Tripura attacked them on suspicion of being child-lifters, police said. The incident took place at Murabari in West Tripura district, about 30 km from here.
On June 28, Jalal, a cattle trader, resident of Kottarakkara was returning from cattle market in Charummoodu, when two people attacked him, his relative Jaleel and driver Sabu at the Muslim street with sticks, leaving them severely injured. They have been hospitalised in Kottarakkara's Taluk hospital. peaking to Newsclick, Jalal said,
three Muslims were kidnapped and beaten on suspicion of cow slaughter in Lakhimpur Uttar Pradesh. All of them were kept beaten whole night and beaten mercilessly, in the morning police came to arrest the accused
Five women engaged in an anti-human trafficking campaign in Khunti district were allegedly abducted and gang-raped by armed men. The survivors were engaged with an NGO supported by Christian missionary,  abducted by motorcycle-borne armed men while they were performing a street play at RC Mission School in Khunti’s Kochang block, about 90 km from Ranchi on 19 June 2018. They were forced to sit inside cars, taken to a nearby secluded place and raped. The perpetrators, who are Pathalgadi supporters, released the girls after three hours said Ranchi range deputy inspector general (DIG) AV Homkar. Pathalgadi is a practice adopted by several tribal villages in Jharkhand to declare their gram sabha as the only sovereign authority, rejecting the authority of central or state government. Huge stone plaques and signboards — called Pathalgadi in the local dialect — have been put up outside tribal settlements in Khunti, Simdega, Gumla and West Singhbhum districts, warning visitors from entering or settling down in these villages. Police officers said the NGO had taken a team of more than half-a-dozen to Kochang under the Arki police station, nearly 45 km from the district headquarters, to carry out an awareness campaign at the school. While the team was conducting a street play, the armed men reached the venue at around 1 pm. Two nuns associated with the Christian missionary also accompanied them. The abductors reportedly made videos of the incident and threatened the girls that the videos would be made viral if they disclose the incident. The DIG, however, appealed to the media to report to the police if they come across any video regarding the incident.
Ramgarh; Jharkhand, Tauheed Ansari was brutally killed by a mob on suspicion of carrying cow meat cow meat. According to reports, Ansari was traveling on the bike to buy some grocery stuff for their guests, but suddenly he met with a road accident and the meat from bike’s boot space fell down on the road. Seeing that Ansari ran away from the spot and later around 12 pm his brutally lynched body was found nearby railway tracks. However, police confiscateed the meat and bike from the place of incidence and sent the meat for forensic test.  The recovered body of deceased was brutally cut by some pointed weapon as there are numerous deep marks on his body. The police and doctor who did postmortem claimed that Ansari died 10 hours before the incidence.  Ansari’s father revealed that the boiled water was also thrown over the body of his son.  A local native Shariq Ansar told to Muslimmirror.com that “Currently two types of images are circulated on social media one of them is photoshopped in which there is not even a single mark over deceased body, but in real image his body is full of injuries and burned, that directly implies the level of brutality Tauheed Ansari had to undergo before dying”.
Qasim (45) was beaten to death by a mob at a sugarcane field in Hapur’s Pilakhuwa and 65-year-old Samiuddin was injured in the incident. Police have arrested two men — Yudhishtir Singh and Rakesh Sisodia — on the charge of murder. According to the FIR filed at the Pilakhuwa police station, the incident was the result of a scuffle between unidentified bike-borne men and the two victims. But the family of Samiuddin and the two men arrested insisted that it was related to “cattle”.  Qasim, according to his family, had received a phone call hours before the incident at around 11 am Monday. “He was at home yesterday and he left immediately stating that he will be back by 4 pm. He took around Rs 60,000-70,000. We had asked him to not leave in a hurry and to return quickly. He used to go to neighbouring villages to procure and sell cattle and we thought that it must be regarding his business,” said Qasim’s daughter-in-law Arshi.  A few hours later, two men had hurried to Qasim’s house to inform the family that he had been rushed to the hospital after he was mercilessly assaulted around five km away. A video has also surfaced that shows Qasim lying in a field, his clothes torn and bruises across his body.  In the video, Qasim pleads for some water as a group of young men stand in the background. A voice asks people to calm down since they have already beaten the man and requests the mob to give Qasim some water. Soon after, another person is heard saying that cows were tied in the fields for slaughtering.  The incident took place between 12 pm and 1 pm on Monday in the sugarcane fields that divide two villages in Pilakhuwa — Muslim dominated Madapur and Thakur-dominated Baghera Khurd. Qasim is a resident of Saddikpur, which is five km from Madapur.
Shajapur: Violence broke out in Madhya Pradesh's Shajapur after stones were allegedly pelted on a procession to celebrate Maharana Pratap Jayanti, police said. According to eye-witnesses, the trouble started this afternoon when some people started hurling stones on the procession which was passing through the Nai Sadak area here. They also torched several vehicles and vandalised an electronic goods store.
Belagavi: A 15-member mob, allegedly belonging to a pro-Hindu organisation, thrashed a driver for transporting cow meat to Goa from Karnataka, late on Tuesday night.  Irshad Ahmad Rangroj had sought legal permission to transport cow meat from Nesargi village in Bailhongal taluk to Goa. But when he was on the way on Khanapur Road in Belagavi, the activists stopped his vehicle and attacked him. He was admitted to the civil hospital, where his condition is stated as critical.  Tension gripped the city as news of the assault spread. Police commissioner DC Rajappa and DCP Seema Latkar visited the area to tackle the situation. They checked and verified the documents regarding meat transportation, and found them to be legal. They informed the activists and booked them for attempt to murder.
An angry mob in Jharkhand’s Godda district allegedly lynched two men on the morning of June 13 over suspicion of stealing cattle. Four people have been arrested in connection with the incident. According to the police, residents of tribal-dominated Dullu village caught hold of the two victims – Sirabuddin Ansari (35) and Murtaza Ansari (30) – and accused them of stealing 13 buffaloes from one Munshi Murmu and others on the night of June 12. The two victims were residents of Taljhari in the district, about 200 km from Ranchi. The accused villagers, after killing the duo, brought back their bodies to Dullu village on bicycles, according to a PTI report. Murmu and three others – identified as Kaleshwar Soren, Kishan Tudu and Harjohan Kisku – have been arrested in this connection, according to Singh, who added that the situation has been brought under control. The four accused have been booked under relevant sections of the IPC pertaining to murder and riot
Abubakar Intercepted by four Cow vigilantes and attacked for Transporting Calves. four people were in a car and carried wooden sticks once they de-boarded their vehicle. The victim Abubakar said that as soon as he saw the men getting off the car with wooden sticks, he tried to escape but got thrashed midway. Victim had serious injuries on head and hands and admitted in New Civil Hospital Surat where he got admitted himself.
In an article published by OpIndia a right-wing Hindu nationalist propaganda news portal publishes an article which hurts the religious sentiments of Muslims, several photoshopped images were attached to create a mockery of Holy month of Ramazan in a derogatory manner
Kashif Jameel, younger brother of Dr Kafeel Khan--the pediatrician booked for the oxygen supply tragedy at Gorakhpur's BRD Medical College that took lives of at least 30 children--was shot at in Gorakhpur by unidentified miscreants on Sunday night. Jameel, 34, is currently admitted to Star private hospital in Gorakhpur. He sustained three bullet shots--one each on his upper arm, neck and chin. “Jameel told us that two men on a motorcycle stopped him at around 10.30 pm near Durga Vahini crossing and fired three rounds at him,” said Kotwali police SHO Ghanshyam Tiwari.
While returning home from the evening Travih prayers late Sunday night, two cleric brothers were brutally beaten up by some unidentified assailants under Nagri police station area in Ranchi, the police said. The incident was reported on Sunday, June 10, when the Maulanas were returning from the Travih prayers from a nearby mosque in Agru village at around 10 PM. The complaint said that Maulana Azharul Islam and his brother Maulana Imran were on the way to their home in Naya Sarai village when some 20 bike-borne men stopped them mid-way and asked them to chant ‘Jai Shri Ram’. When the brothers refused, they assaulted the brothers while hurling casteist, communal abuses at them. “They asked them to chant Jai Shri Ram. When they refused to do so, they were assaulted with lathi and hockey sticks. One brother, Maulana Imran, managed to flee but Maulana Mazharul Islam was brutally assaulted by the mob,” local human rights lawyer Shadab Ansari said.
Husainabba, who was allegedly transporting cattle in a Scorpio vehicle on May 30, died after he was waylaid and assaulted by Bajrang Dal activists near Hiriyadka in Udupi. The police in its UDR claimed he had a heart attack while trying to get away, but later arrested the Bajrang Dal activists and three policemen including an SI, for allegedly colluding with them based on a complaint filed by Husainabba's brother. The Karnataka Komu Sauhardha Vedike says there were 12 cases of cattle vigilantism in 2016 here and 22  last year. The cases include attacks not only on those transporting cattle illegally but also those who are doing it legally with all necessary documents, according to him.
A Muslim boy is beaten by a mob in Ramgarh, Uttrakhand because he found in the compromisable position with the Hindu girl near Temple Premise. He caught by a mob and after checking the ID of that boy they start assaulted that boy after which a sub-Inspector Gagandeep Singh interfere in the matter and save him from the Mob. The mob in which there are few activists from Bajrang Dal and VHP yelled against police when they realized that the police officer saves that men. Police take the CCTV footage and check the faces of the faces of the persons who were involved in the violence.
Muslims attacked and threaten by hindutva group At Ifftar Time in Kolgarma, koderma, Jharkhand
Police booked BJP MP Kanta Kardam for hate speech on the orders of Election Commission for violation of Code of Conduct.
Riyas khan was beaten to death allegedly by villagers in Madhya Pradesh, after he was suspected of slaughtering cattle. The violence took place In Satna district, one of the stops for home minister Rajnath Singh, who is on a two-day visit to the state. The police have arrested four men and murder cases will be filed against them, officers said. The arrested men -- Pawan Singh Gond, Vijay Singh Gond, Phool Singh Gond and Narayan Singh Gond - are villagers from Amgara. On the basis of complaint filed by Pawan Singh Gond, the police have filed a case of cow slaughter against Riyaz Khan and Shakeel, who is in coma in a hospital in Jabalpur. The families of the two men have denied cow slaughter charges, say reports. The officials said they found a slaughtered bull and the meat of two other bulls packed in sacks at the spot where the murder took place.
A man was assaulted by four persons in a moving train in West Bengal after he failed to name the Prime Minister of India. The victim, a migrant labourer from Kaliachak in West Bengal’s Malda district was abused for not knowing the State's Chief Minister and national anthem. He was also criticized for offering namaz everyday at Mosque but not knowing the national anthem. The four youths abused him, his family and his religion. He was frightened when he could not answer to the queries and reduced to tears. The youths forced him to say 'Bharat Mata Ki Jay' and later got down at Bandel station. A local NGO , Bangla Sanskriti Mancha went to the victim's home and took her wife to lodge a complaint. The complaint was registered by the police.  The fear silenced the victim and he did not even tell about the incident to his wife.
Aurangabad: At least 100 shops were gutted on Saturday morning after the situation turned violent following clashes between two groups over water in Maharashtra's Aurangabad city on Friday night. Reports of one casualty have emerged, it is yet to be confirmed by authorities or law enforcement agencies. On Friday, clashes ensued between 2 groups after illegal water connection to a 'religious place' was reportedly disconnected. Several parts city witnessed youths from two groups taking to streets and attacking each other with some pelting stones. Several vehicles were also burnt. One of the person died due to police firing. Section 144 of the CrPC was later imposed in Aurangabad city.
In Safdarjang, New Delhi a Tughlaq era tomb is converted into Temple by the local people. According to Manish Sisodia, the matter is handled by zero tolerance which erupts violence in the area in his letter to Art, Culture, Language Department. Last year INTACH collaborate with Department of Archaeology to restore the Monument but local create problems for them. When the Indian Express visited the tomb after the incident there in the front of the entrance a plastic fibre is placed and the tomb is painted with white and saffron.
Gurugram: Open spaces were denied for Namaz in Gurugram District Haryana,  by the statement of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar who said that
The villagers of Kesalingayapalli of Kadapa district in Andhra Pradesh put up a saffron-coloured board outside the village to restrict the entry of other religions, especially Christians. The board reads: “In this village, everyone is a Hindu, hence people of other religions cannot propagate their religion here. If someone violates this warning, stern action will be taken against them—By People of Kesalingayapalli…...If you convert to a different religion, it is akin to changing your own mother.” The villagers alleged that over the past few years Christians have entered their village and lured people to conversion with western medicine and money. The villagers erected the ‘warning board’ in 2016 on the occasion of the Hindu Festival ‘Ram Navami.’ Other than the board, houses and tea shops can be seen putting up saffron flags with ‘Om’ written on them, in a bid to make the atmosphere even more hostile to people of other faiths. According to local reports, several villages surrounding Kesalingayapalli like Thippireddypalli, Masannayapalli, Mittamaanupalli, Harijanawada and others have taken the 'Hindu only' village as a 'model village' and put up saffron flags as well.  Despite the 'caution' board and 'Hindu only' declaration, the local administration has taken no action so far.
Historic Shaikpet Mosque situated close to the Golconda fort, after unidentified miscreants allegedly placed an idol of Lord Shiva, inside the structure on Tuesday morning. “The religious structure is not being used now. We reached the spot immediately and took the situation under control. No untoward incident was reported. We are verifying the miscreants behind the act,” the police was quoted as saying.
The beheaded body of Pastor Abraham Topno, 46, was found close to his isolated village Kubasal. The wife of 46-year-old Abraham Topno reported him missing late Tuesday evening. Police Inspector Gimal Kumar said that the pastor was kidnapped and killed May 1st as his jeep taxi drove through a dangerous, dense forest area near the capital city of Ranchi.
Few anti-social elements harrassed Muslim for performing Friday prayers and forced to chant
Alleging consumption of beef (cow meat) at a wedding reception hosted by 50-year old Jumman Miyan, a mob of hundreds of people attacked a locality of a particular community in Koderma district of Jharkhand. Some villagers reportedly found bones and remains of the banned meat in the field behind the house of a villager identified as Israel Ansari. A team of the local police reached the village and began investigation. At the time of investigation , a mob of people attacked identified person Israel and Jumman miyan and they both have received serious injuries. They were referred to the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences in Ranchi. The mob barged into 30 houses and ransacked them. They destroyed 17 bikes, one Bolero, one car and two tempos. Besides, a religious place was also attacked and some religious books were burnt. To control the mob, the police had to resort to lathi-charge and the District Magistrate imposed section 144 of CrPC to maintain law and order.
BJP MLA from Alwar City Banwari Lal Singhal appealed from Hindus not to enter the Muslims inside their homes and he also not enter any Muslim in their home nor ask to vote BJP because asking for a vote means to get away them from the crime which they regularly commit.  He also said that Meo Muslims make a fake ID on Facebook and lure with the Hindu girls and make there life Hell and on the other side either side illiterate and poor Muslim girl never love or marry with Hindu Boys.
A blind couple who begged for a living were forced to chant 'Jai Shri Ram', 'Jai Maa Tara' by Hindutva goons who otherwise threatened to kill them. On the couple's insistence that they be allowed to leave, the goons told them they'd do so only if they uttered those slogans. The goons also made the couple hold a flag with the sign 'Om' on it.
Nawada: A huge procession was taken out on March 28 (Rama Navami was on March 25) in a local market. People from neighboring villages were called to join the rally. However, it passed peacefully. On March 30, a Hanuman idol placed on a disputed land was found broken. People gathered and attacked a nearby marriage hall where people attending a marriage ceremony were staying. The crowd set a motor cycle on fire and damaged a shop of sanitary fittings. The police have arrested around 10 people out of the 40 named (20 each from both sides) accused, including few who were staying in the marriage hall. Eyewitnesses have revealed the involvement of the local leaders from BJP.
Several parts of West Bengal witnessed communal clashes over a week following the violence during Ram Navami processions on 29th March, Sunday. While three people have lost their lives in the clashes in West Bengal, dozens of people sustained injuries.
The imam of a mosque in West Bengal’s Asansol,  Maulana Imdadul Rashidi lost his 16 year son Sibtulla Rashidi in the Ram Navami violence. He was found on Wednesday after he went missing following a clash on Tuesday in Asansol’s Railpar area. Sibtulla was the younger of the two sons of Rashidi, who has been performing the duties of the imam at Noorani Mosque for about 30 years. Rashidi made an impassioned plea to the people gathered at the Idgah Maidan where his son was buried on Thursday. “My son has died, but I don’t want anyone else to lose his child. If you strike back, I shall leave this town,”.
The trouble started at Rosera in Samastipur district on March 27 as hundreds of people gathered around a mosque at the local Gudri Bazar demanding instant punishment for an unknown man who had allegedly thrown a flip-flop at a Ram Navami procession on March 26. The mob entered the mosque and set parts of it on fire. The unruly mob ransacked the mosque and waved the tri-colour along with saffron flags at the religious place. The rioters also torched a nearby madrasa and destroyed the religious scriptures.
Munger: After Samastipur, the fire of communalism engulfed Munger on the night of March 27 as some people protested against a controversial song being played and inflammatory slogans being chanted in an immersion procession of Chaiti Durga. Stones were pelted by both sides and shots were also fired at the Neelam Chowk thoroughfare. Violence was witnessed in several parts of the town and property and vehicles were set ablaze.
During the ram nauvi celebration in Mandipore, West Bengal a clash occurred between the Bajrang Dal and police during the arm procession in Beldi Village. During the clash, a 50 years old men sheikh shahjan is killed due to injuries. 16 persons were arrested in the connection and Chairman of West Bengal for protection of Child Rights, Ananza Chatterjee said that he contacted with Magistrate and police personnel. Clash has occurred because there is a ban on weapons during celebration but Bajrang Dal activists show weapons during the celebration.
Aurangabad: Aurangabad was the worst affected among the three district, including Kaimur and Gaya, where communal violence broke out on March 25 evening. Rioters set ablaze 31 shops, suggest official figures, but locals say over 50 shops were turned to ashes. More than 25 people were injured and one of the muslim youth was killed. The violence began after crowd of hundreds, as part of the Rama Navami processions – forcibly tried to enter Qazi Muhalla – a Muslim-majority area – at Nawadi Road. The participants of the bike rally tried to make a forced entry into the area. The police said objectionable slogans provoked people of the locality and they asked the participants of the rally not to enter into the area and go ahead passing straight through the market. Following a heated verbal exchange, stone pelting started between the two groups. After the police pacified the two group and dispersed the crowd, people gathered again and took out another procession on March 26. It is interesting to note here that the police gave permission to take out the second rally without taking lessons from the violence during the first procession. It now resulted in large scale damage. Several shops were gutted and property looted. A video shot by a local – accessed by this team – shows hundreds of men violating a Muslim burial ground and proclaiming victory with loud chants of 'Jai Shri Ram' after having pitched a saffron flag there. The violent mob also resorted to firing and allegedly used hand-made bombs but this could not be confirmed.  Prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC were enforced. The situation in the town is tense but completely under control. Over 150 people were arrested in connection with the communal clashes witnessed in the town for two days in Aurangabad and Internet services have been suspended for an indefinite period.  People have been arrested in connection with these riots and over a dozen of them are BJP workers, including two senior leaders – Mohan Patwa and Dinesh Kumar Jha. Union minister Ashwini Kumar Choubey’s son Arijit Shashwat, who was jailed on April 1, instigated the violence that erupted in Nathnagar area of Bhagalpur, leaving several persons, including two police personnel, injured because of heavy stone-pelting, arson and exchange of fire. Police officials were biased in arresting, they arrested victims among the Muslim community who report police about the violence taking place.
Minor incidents of violence also took place in Gaya and Kaimur because of the objectionable slogans during Rama Navami processions. Some bike borne youths raised provocative slogans in front of a mosque at Mughalpura under Chainpur police station on March 25 when they were going to attend a Ram Navami procession. This led to clashes between the two communities. “Two persons suffered minor injuries but the situation was immidiately brought under control with heavy deployment of security forces,” said Patna zonal IG, Nayyar Hasnain Khan. In Gaya, miscreants pelted stones on a Ram Navami procession under Kothi police station area while it was retreating on March 25. Stone pelting took place between two communities after which a huge number of police personnel were deployed.
Patna : A case was lodged against Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare Ashwani Choubey’s son in connection with communal clashes during a procession in Bihar’s Bhagalpur district, police said on Monday. “Two cases were lodged in in connection with the clashes two days ago. The first was against taking out the procession without permission, inciting communal sentiment and roaming on roads with displaying arms in which Choubey’s son Arijit Shashwat and 20 others were named as accused,” police officer Md Janeefuddin told.
Some Radical Hindu activists alleged attacked prayer homes of Pentecostal Christians at two places in Madurai, Tamil Nadu.  Pastor Ravi Jacob, who lodged a complaint, that Hindu Munnani activists on March 11 burnt some pamphlets and copies of the Bible and abused pastors and the faithful at Koodal Nagar and Sikandar Chavadi areas on Sunday. Jacob alleged that 10 people came to his house that day, took away copies of the Bible and damaged them. A clip of the group reportedly threatening the people had gone viral. A case was registered two days later against 10 Hindu activists, including three who were identified. The Police said some activists, during initial questioning, denied that they had attacked the homes and had only staged protests against people being allegedly lured for conversion. The activists said the complaint was a ploy so that some organizations could continue their “illegal conversions.” Police said they had received complaints from the public that some prayer homes were being running illegally, demanding that these be closed.     J
The coastal region of Karnataka has a strong presence of Hindu right-wing organisations, with Bajrang Dal active in Mangalore and Udupi districts while Hindu Jagran Vedike more active in the region of Honnavar, Bhatkal, Kumki and Murdeshwar, said a local. The ones who were involved in the attack were allegedly members of the Bajrang Dal. According to Mohammed Ismail, a relative of one of the victims, Mohammed Ismail, Nur-ul-Ameen Mukhtasar (40) and Ghufran Pothe (35) were returning to Bhatkal on Wednesday night at around 11:30 pm after purchasing two buffalos and a bull from Ankola. A group of more than hundred right-wing activists forcefully stopped their Bolero pickup vehicle near Karki NH-66 and assaulted them causing severe injuries to the body. As per Karnataka laws, the sale of beef is not illegal and consequently, the three animals were being brought to Bhatkal for a wedding, locals confirmed. Nur-ul-Ameen was beaten in such a way that his one hand was fractured and also sustained grievous head and body injuries. Another victim Ghufran too was beaten badly and he received multiple injuries on his back and stomach.
Rajasthan Gau Raksha Commando force president SS Tiger openly threaten to shot those people who will kill the cow at a public program in Ramlila Maidan, New Delhi.
Kopargaon, Maharashtra,  42 year old Akbar Rajjak Tamboli was beaten to his death in the late noon on 17 Feb. The incident occurred in Kopargaon, Maharashtra. Sabrangindia is in exclusive possession of the First Information Report (FIR) in CR Nos 1-32/2018 that clearly lays down the gory sequence of events. The incident happened at about 4.30 - 5 p.m. in the afternoon according to the FIR. Two accused, Sainath Machindra Tribhuvan and Praveen Vishnu Netare have been arrested and charges of Section302 (murder) and 32 already leveled on them. Two police teams are conducting widespread investigations to get two more from the mob who killed Akbar. Akbar Rajjak Tamboli, hails from the Subedar Basti, in Shrirampur dist. Ahmednagar in Maharashtra.The complainant in the FIR is 44 year old brother of Akbar, Naeem Razzak Tamboli.
Muzaffarnagar: Irked by a youth from a particular community waiting for his female friend at her house in Muzaffarnagar, a group of men, including the girl's neighbours and members of a right wing outfit, allegedly barged into the house, thrashed him and later set his motorcycle on fire. Terrified by the development, the 22-year-old has now gone underground and his family is not willing to talk to anyone. The girl's family tried to stop the attackers, and they were also beaten including a minor girl.
In the village Halotali of district Fatehgarh, the four walls and the basic structure of Mosque Umar were uprooted by the members of the Hindu community which has led to a tense atmosphere in the village. Police to control the atmosphere has told the Muslim community in a room in a village. The anti-social elements has warned the community not to build the mosque
A 45-year-old Muslim man in Rajasthan’s Sirohi city was repeatedly slapped and harassed by forcing him to say “Jai Shri Ram”. In a video clip that he took of the episode, the 18-year old, who identifies himself as Vinay Kumar Meena, is seen slapping the Muslim man over 20 times, abusing him and trying to coerce him to say “Jai Shri Ram”. After a while, the victim responds by saying, “Parvardigaar sabse bada hai [God is the greatest].” Meena then continues to slap the man. Sirohi Superintendent of Police Om Prakash told the news agency that Meena was arrested on Tuesday. He said the police have charged the accused with “voluntarily causing hurt, promoting enmity, hurting religious sentiments and breaking peace”.
Friday prayers for two Kashmiri students in the Central University of Haryana (CUH) and four Muslim daily wage labourers turned into a nightmare when they were attacked by a mob. The first incident happened in Masani Chowk when at around 2.30 pm, Aftab Ahmad and Amjad Ali, who belong to Rajouri in Jammu and are now enrolled in the geography department of CUH, were on their way back from the nearest mosque in Mahendragarh town, around 11 kilometres away from the university, when a group of 10-15 motorbike-borne men abused and attacked them. According to Ahmad, the attack was unprovoked. “My friend and I had gone to the mosque to offer namaz yesterday. Just after we left the mosque and were heading towards our bike, we were assaulted by a mob. We asked them why were we being targeted but they didn’t say anything and just kept hitting us. We asked people for help but nobody intervened. It’s shameful how everyone just stood there and watched while the mob attacked us with bricks and helmets,” an India Today report quoted Ahmad as saying. After the prayer, when they made their way to a nearby tailor shop on Aftab’s motorbike, they saw a group of 10-15 men on their bikes following them. Within minutes, the group snatched their helmets and started hitting them. The men also had bricks with which they hit Ahmad and Ali. The crowd just stood and watched the incident.”  “There were reports of some Muslim workers from Bengal and Bihar also facing similar attacks on Friday. While the attack on Kashmiri students was highlighted, I think the mob had planned to attack Muslims in general who were returning to their respective places of work after the jumma prayers. It appears to be a pre-planned attack as the group of attackers were waiting for people to come out from the mosque.”  At least four workers were attacked on February 2 – two near Bahadur Kothi and two near Ram Vilas Kothi in Mahendragarh market. Mukul Sheikh, a brick kiln contractor confirmed that two of his workers were beaten with stones. “After they left the mosque, a group of five to seven people surrounded them and attacked them with stones. The attackers left after five minutes. My workers were so shocked that they came running to me. I got them some medicines. But they are now so scared to leave the factory premises. Since yesterday they have been crying, asking me how will they go out to buy items of their daily use,” Sheikh told The Wire.
Pune: The Pune teenager who was labelled as an “IS suicide bomber” by the Jammu & Kashmir Police in January but exonerated after extensive questioning by police and intelligence agencies, on Monday lamented that her academic career had been ruined by the misleading media reports. Sadiya Anwar Shaikh, 18, who came before the media after her return from Srinagar early Sunday, said she had gone there with her mother Sumiyya for admission to a local nursing college.
On 26 January disruption of the peaceful flag-hoisting ceremony by the Muslim community at Veer Abdul Hamid Chowk (named after the martyred Indian soldier of the 1965 war) by a motorcycle rally of the youngsters took place. These were mainly activists of ABVP and Sankalp Foundation. This was followed by firing and violence in other parts of the city. This resulted into a death of a young man Chandan Gupta due to bullet wounds. Two other men Naushad and Akram were grievously injured and were hospitalized. Salim, one of the accused claimed that in the riots his house were looted with the help of Police. •     On 27 January – even though police force was accompanying the funeral procession, while returning through the Bilram market, the police force did not stop the looting and arson of Muslim-owned shops. Not enough force was deployed in the market even though it was on the return route of the funeral procession. Police hesitated to take case and to arrest the culprits even there was solid evidences.  After the scuffle at the Abdul Hamid Chowk, police intervened following which the bike rally scattered – they ran away leaving the bikes which were impounded by the police. Till date there is no evidence to show that the police have arrested or questioned the bike-owners. “We are investigating,” said SHO Ripudaman Singh.  No permission was apparently taken to take the bike rally through the Abdul Hamid Chowk. The designated route, reportedly, was not followed. Hence, it was planned move to create polarization and  move towards violent confrontation.
Asifa was kidnapped and held captive from a village in Jammu's Kathua district on January 10. For seven days, she was sedated, starved and gang-raped and finally she was murdered. her head was bashed with a stone to ensure that she was dead. The body of the Asifa, from the Bakarwal community, was recovered from Rassana forest in Kathua on 17 January, a week after she went missing while grazing horses in the forest area.  Local policemen attempted to shield the suspects and destroyed evidence. But when arrests were made, the Mufti Mehbooba government ordered the case to the crime branch. That is when the horror story started unfolding. It turned out that the gang-rape was a tactic to drive out a Muslim nomad community to which the child belonged from a Hindu-dominated area. Police have arrested eight men, including a retired government official, four police officers and a juvenile in connection with Asifa's death.  According to the investigators, Asifa was confined in a local temple for several days and given sedatives that kept her unconscious. The charge sheet alleges that she was
A migrant labourer from West Bengal, who was in his thirties, died under suspicious circumstances in Jaipur on January 16, said the police. According to the police, the post-mortem report has revealed that the labourer, Sakir Ali, died of acid burn injuries. The police said that preliminary investigation doesn’t rule it as a murder case. “We have registered a case under section 174 CrPC (unnatural death) and will also get to know more as the FSL report arrives. Preliminary investigation has ruled out murder…We also came to know that Ali was an alcoholic, so the suicide angle is also being investigated,” said Prasad.
Giving controversial statements, targeting a particular community, to grab media attention have these days become a new normal. And members of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) appears to be topping the list of hate speech makers. Joining the ranks of his fellow hate mongers, a legislator of the saffron party from Ballia district of Uttar Pradesh on Saturday said that once India becomes a Hindu rashtra (Hindu nation), only those Muslims will stay here who embrace the Hindu culture”.
BJP MLA from Khatauli, Vikram Saini vented out hate speech against minority communities at a public function. Saini attacked Muslim and Christian Minority Communities specifically. He said that
NEW DELHI : Making provocative speeches with an aim to rip apart the society on communal lines have become a new normal in the country, which is being led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In recent display of his politics, one legislator of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said India is for Hindus, while another claimed Muslims want to take control of country by 2030
A Muslim has been beaten to death in the eastern Indian state of Jharkhand after reportedly asking a group to stop playing loud music on New Year's Day. The incident happened in Mandar, a town close to the state capital, Ranchi. People blocked the national motorway on Tuesday to demand the arrest of suspects but the blockade was eventually cleared by police. Waseem Ansari and two of his friends approached the group and told them to stop playing loud music. This led to an argument and Waseem was attacked by the group. It seems he was hit by one of the sharp instruments used in cooking.
Mohammed Farooq, the 61-year-old moazzen of a mosque at Battinanagar under Lalacheruvu Panchayat in Rajamahendravaram was found murdered in the early morning hours of Friday at the mosque, sending shock waves throughout the town. On hearing the news, many local Muslims and community leaders reached the mosque and started agitating on the NH-16. The crowd that gathered at the murder spot grew restless despite police assurance that the culprits would be nabbed soon. Due to growing tension, the police imposed section 144 in that area.
Muzaffarnagar (Uttar Pradesh): The  police had arrested, two minor girls and seven other people, on the charge of cow slaughter and sent them to the Jail on Friday, said media reports. Both the minor girls had shown as the adult before the court and sent to Jail, instead of the juvenile home. Khatauli Police had arrested nine people, including two minor girls (aged 12 years and 16 years) in the charge of cow slaughter and the police allege to seize the 10 quintals of raw meat, as well butchering tools from the scene, while four other accused ran away.
Bantwal. Siddique,  a  resident  Badakaje  village  in  Bantwal,  had  come  to  the  Sub-Registrar’s  office  with Ponnamma,  a  resident  of  a  village in  Madikeri,  to  submit  an  application  for  registration  of marriage.  Just  as  they  were  submitting  the  form,  several  Hindutva  activists  affiliated to  various groups  started assembling  at  the  office  located  on  BC  Road  in  Bantwal.  Tipped  off  about  possible  trouble,  the Bantwal  Town  and  Rural  Police  arrived  and  found  a  large  gathering  of  the  activists.  Anticipating trouble for the girl, the police took her away in a police van to the station and dispersed the activists. The  boy  by  then  had  left  the  office,  the  police  said.  The  police  said  that  the  girl’s  younger  brother came  from  Madikeri to  the police  station  around  noon and  told  them  that  his  sister  was  in love  with the  boy  for  the last  five  years. Their  family was  in  favour  of  the  marriage.  He  left  with  his  sister  for Madikeri, the police said. Additional Deputy Commissioner Kumar said that the application filed by the couple  under  provisions  of  Special  Marriage  Act  has  been  posted  on  the  notice  board  of  the  Sub-Registrar’s office. The marriage will be solemnised after a month, he said.
NCC barred 10 Jamia students from participating in a National Cadet Corps(NCC) camp in Rohini since they were sporting a beard. The students alleged that the authorities told them to shave their beards overnight or leave the camp. The refused students met with an eviction order. The reason for their eviction on the notice was simply given as indiscipline. The barred students protested against this discrimination after gaining support from student organisation and also met the Jamia VC. Vice Chancellor Talat Ahmad said that he met with the students, asked for their grievances in writing and will approach the NCC officials.  “The authorities said either shave your beard or leave”, said a student, as quoted by the newspaper. “Our bags were thrown out of the gate,” he added. According to a report by The Times of India, a student also alleged that they were warned of police action if they did not leave the camp.
New Delhi : A group of 10 Muslim Students from Jamia Millia Islamia have faced discrimination by NCC staff at Rohini Headquarters, and compelled to leave the 10 days NCC winter camp, because of having beard. Those students joined the NCC camp six days before, latter they were asked to write an application in regards of having the beard, after submitting an application the NCC staff asked the students to leave the camp as soon as possible, otherwise they would forcefully evict them. The students had to leave the camp because since yesterday they were sitting outside the NCC headquarters.
A cow smuggler named Zakir Khan (46) was thrashed by the villagers after he was caught with a truck carrying eight cows. He sustained a head injury and a fractured foot. At first, the police rushed him to a hospital in Ramgarh, but given the seriousness of the injuries, he was later referred to another hospital in Alwar city.
A madarasa student was attacked and was brutally beaten when he was returning to Darul uloom, Deoband from Jharkhand. Asthe train reached Sultanpur Station four men started bullying him and took his bag away. The victim ran after them but the perpetrators tore his bag and scattered his belongings. He was beaten brutally by the men.
Murder of Mohammed Afrazul in Rajsamand, Rajasthan leadto protest by the muslims of the area on the day of court trial in the Udaipur court. Some men who belonged to hindutva group hoisted saffron color flag on the dome of the court saying
Aligarh native Mansoor Farhad Yusuf and Dr. Nupur of Raj Nagar of Ghaziabad were classmates in Aligarh Muslim University and had been in a relationship. On Friday, they reportedly got married in court with the consent of their families, and a post-wedding celebration was planned at Nupur’s residence in the evening.  However, when some Hindutva organisations, including the Bajrang Dal, heard of the matter, they reached Nupur’s residence and shouted slogans of ‘love jihad’. Soon, a heavy police force rushed to the place and security was deployed outside the residence. Police lathi-charged the protesters. Later, Nupur’s family lodged an FIR against the activists at Kavi Nagar police station in Ghaziabad.
Lucknow : A Vishwa Hindu Parishad affiliated activist group on Tuesday warned schools in Aligarh of dire consequences if they celebrated Christmas. The Hindu Jagran Manch, in a letter to all city schools, has said that if the festival is celebrated by them they would be doing it “at their own risk”. The warning has sent the jitters down the spines of missionary schools across the city who have been celebrating Christmas, the birthday of Lord Jesus Christ, with gaiety every year. Soon after the news spread, school managements expressed concern over the warning and called for security.
Alleging religious conversion, a mob linked to a right-wing Hindu group attacked Catholic carol singers in Madhya Pradesh's Satna district and also set a priest's car ablaze. Instead of taking action against the attackers, the police detained the Christian singers, a priest said. Father Rene Verghese told:
Police detained priests and seminaries in Madhya Pradesh alleging them of forceful conversion. They were even asked by police that why don't they go to Kashmir and convert Muslims into Christianity. The Hindu right-wing members also threatened them. A Catholic priest was arrested on charges of forced religious conversion and several other members of the minority community were allegedly assaulted by activists of a right-wing Hindu group at a police station in Madhya Pradesh’s Satna. However the Catholic church of the state has denied the allegations.
A young Muslim man came to meet his female friend from the Dalit community. The man had business relations with the father of the woman. Some boys belonging to Hindutva group attacked them in the house and beat him badly on the allegations of love jihad. The police, instead of taking actions against the men who attacked, arrested the Muslim man on charges of molestation under SC/ST act without any investigation.
Rajastan: A Bengali worker Afrazul khan was hacked and burnt alive by Shambulal Regar accusing him of 'love jihad'. The whole act of killing was filmed by his nephew a boy of 14 years of age. The murder occurred in the small town of Rajnagar, the headquarters of Rajsamund district, barely 100 km from Udaipur, known till now in the rest of the country for little more than the Nathdwara temple town nearby and the marble warehouses and cutting and polishing factories surrounding it along the national highway to Udaipur.
A suspected cow smuggler hailing from Haryana was killed in a late-night encounter with police in the Alwar district of Rajasthan, the latest incident of violence in the region over claims of cattle smuggling.  The incident took place in the Janta Colony area on Wednesday night. A group of five to seven people were seen transporting cows in a “stolen” mini truck. When police tried to stop them, they opened fire at the policemen. “The policemen informed the control room following which separate teams tried to intercept the vehicle at SMD circle, Kali Mori overbridge, and college circle but the accused opened fire and fled towards the Maujpur House road,” Superintendent of Police of Alwar Rahul Prakash said. The police opened retaliatory fire, and one person identified as Talim, a 22-year- old, was killed. The other people fled the spot. Efforts are on to locate them, Prakash said.
Three muslim men (including one cleric) wearing caps on their heads were travelling in a train from Delhi to Haridwar. Some six-seven youth came up and asked them
16-Nov-2020:  a local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader openly threatened the Muslims of Uttar Pradesh, has warned the community members to vote for his wife in the upcoming municipal elections or face consequences. “Yeh Bharatiya Janata Party ki sarkar hai, Samajwadi ki sarkar nahin hai…yahan par ja kar tum DM aur SP se apna kaam nahin karwa sakte ho…yahan par koi neta tumhari koi madad nahin kar sakta hai…dusri musibaten bhi tum par aa sakti hain…aaj tumhara koi pairokar Bharatiya Janata Party ke andar nahin hai (This is Bharatiya Janata Party’s government and not of Samajwadi Party…you cannot go to the DM – district magistrate – and the SP – suprintendent of police – to get your work done…no leader can help you here…you can face other difficulties as well…today, you don’t have any advocate in the Bharatiya Janata Party)…,” said Ranjeet Kumar Srivastava while campaigning for his wife Shashi, who is contesting the civic body elections in Barabanki district. Now, he issued chilling ultimatum. “Agar hamare sabhasadon ko tumne baghair bhed bhao ke chunav nahin jitaya…agar Ranjeet Sahab ki patni ko tumne vote de kar ke chunav nahi jitaya to yeh doori jo tum banane ja rahe ho, ab agar yeh doori banegi to tumko Samajwadi Party bachane nahi aayegi. BJP ka shashankaal hai…jo kasht tumko nahi jhelne pade the, woh kasht tumko uthane pad sakte hain…(If you don’t vote for our candidates without descrimination…if you don’t elect Mr Ranjit’s wife, then you are distancing yourselves and the Samajwadi Party will not come to your rescue. This is BJP’s regime…you may face the problems in the future you have not cronfronted so far…),” he said during a public meeting. “Muslims, I am asking you to vote for us and not begging in front of you. If you vote for us, you will remain happy, else you will get to know about the difficulties you will face in the future,” he added.
an owner of a Delhi-based orphanage has denied a job to a Muslim girl because she wore the Islamic headscarf, hijab.  27-year-old Nedal Zoya, a Masters in Social Work from Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), Mumbai, was bluntly told the reason for her rejection was that she wore hijab.  The owner of the orphanage, Harish Varma wrote to her in an email, “Our upcoming orphanage will be religion free for the eligible orphan girls as well as staff. But I am sorry to inform you that even a distance of one kilometre you look like a Muslim lady due to your external Muslim gears. No, she is neither afraid nor feeling like being a victim. Nedal Zoya, who has been denied a job - not once but twice, merely because she wears Hijab instead said:
Rajasthan: Cow Vigilantes attack again, Ummar Khan killed while Tahir Khan battling for his life.  A Muslim man who was transporting cows near the Rajasthan-Haryana border was shot dead allegedly by vigilantes while his aide was left battling for his life in a private hospital after being thrashed, reported CNN-News 18. No FIR has been registered yet despite a demand for the immediate arrest of the accused. The vigilantes allegedly threw Ummar Khan’s body on the railway track to cover up the murder and show it as an accident. Police retrieved the body, dismembered by a moving train, to Alwar on Saturday and kept it at the mortuary in the Rajiv Gandhi Government Hospital. Mr. Tahir Khan, 42, who escaped from the spot, has reportedly been admitted to a private hospital at Ferozepur Jhirka in neighbouring Haryana, while Mr. Javed Khan, 28, is missing. District Congress minority cell president Jamshed Khan said,  “There is a suspicion that the policemen might have joined cow vigilantes in the assault,
A mosque was set on fire in Peepli village of Sirmaur. Religious literature, Mats and CCTV cameras were destroyed badly. The police force was appointed in the area to prevent any further mishap.
51 cows of the Subha Khan were snatched by Gau rakshaks and with the help of police, cows were sent to  a gaushala (cow shelter) in Alwar district. Police claims that took away the cows, apparently to prevent a “law and order” problem. Khan’s wife Baseri said she had taken the cattle out for grazing on October 3 near their village, Sahubas, when some youngsters from adjoining Kankra village tried to take away the cows. “Our family rears cattle. We have been selling cow and goat milk for years. We earn between ?2,000 and ?3,000 every day. Now, it has stopped and we are suddenly left with no means to support our lives. My husband is knocking on every door possible, but it seems that nobody is ready to listen to us,” she added.
A handicapped auto driver, named Azaad, was brutally beaten near Faridabad by Gau Rakshaks in the apprehension that the meat he was carrying was cow meat. While the auto driver was carrying buffalo meat, the cow vigilantes stopped his auto  and asked him to chant
The victims were carrying buffalo meet when on the suspect of carrying beef the accused men (all 40) surrounded the victims and beat them badly. The victims were asked to say
A mob allegedly dragged a Muslim man out of a hotel room in Rajasthan’s Barmer district and assaulted him for being with a Hindu woman. The woman’s relatives arrived at the hotel in Balotra soon after the two checked in. The victim was conscious and refused to lodge a complaint.
A minor accident between teen Arvind who was on his bicycle and Intekhab Alam who was riding motorcycle led to clashes among the two communities. Arvind sustained serious injuries and the rumor of his death spread across the town Ratsar. Group of hindus set shops belonging to muslims on fire, shops were looted and people from both the communities attacked each other. Fire brigade was called to set off fire and additional police was called to control the situation. The situation was under control later.
Communal tension broke out in Sector 9 area of Noida, on 6th October, after some people alleged that Lord Shiva's Trishul (Trident) placed at a podium was vandalised by the people of other communities early in night. A massive police force was deployed in the area in order to ensure a state of law and order. The place of worship used by the Hindus for Durga Puja is located adjacent to a mosque. On 6th October at around 11 am, when some worshippers reached the spot, they found that the Trishul was bending down and immediately informed other people about the mishap. The information spread like a wildfire and a massive crowd thronged into the spot. Some members of the Bajrang Dal and the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) then started beating drums and gathered a large number of people on the ground, claiming that Muslims had vandalised the area in the night. Both the mosque and the Hindu's place of worship are built on Noida Authority's land. According to people, the mosque has been built on Noida Authority's land few years ago, in the rein of former Samajwadi Party government. The vacant place on the other side of the mosque is used by the Hindu community. This year, the people from Hindu community built a permanent cemented structure at which the Trishul was placed and a cemented Havan Kund has also been built by them at the spot.
Members of Hindu outfits alleged on Friday that a Trishul (trident) and a havan kund, installed next to a mosque in Sector 9, were damaged by the members of the Muslim community. Afterward, the afternoon prayers at the mosque had to be conducted amid heavy security. No violence, however, was reported. The Muslims, meanwhile, denied all allegations of vandalism. Mohammad Jamshed, President of the Masjid Committee, said that the community members had welcomed the decision to construct the podium and had, in fact, helped in its construction.
In khankal  Uttarakhand Mob attack on the Muslim owned shops and raised slogans against the Muslim community and burned and destroyed their property and beaten them and set the blaze in the Muslim owned shops due to which section 144 of Crpc is imposed in that area. After the violence police registered FIR(First information report) against 15 peoples and arrested two people's. After the violence Hindu shop owners also help the Muslim owner to repair their shops. It occurs when a report of 34 years old Hindu man body found near railway track.
Imam Abdul Wahid was disembarking the bus at Begum pul. The policeman stopped imam for checking as he was having a bag. After checking the policeman slapped imam as alleged by imam himself. People gathered to protest against the police for letting the accused go away in order to safeguard him. The police wasn't taking action against the accused and tried to compromise.
Communal clashes at two places in Kanpur's Param Purwa village left nearly 30 people, including five policemen, injured while nearly 10 vehicles and four shops were either set afire or ransacked. People of the two communities were reportedly firing at each other besides fighting a pitched battle with the cops. Trouble began when a Tazia procession, commemorating the death of Imam Hussein ibn Ali, the grandson of Prophet Muhammad, took a different route instead of the permitted one.
Tension gripped Chapproli Banger village near Noida’s sector 168 on Monday after the imam alleged that his brother was roughed up by a mob. Mob thrashed an Imam’s brother and vandalized property at a mosque. Hasan claimed he was accused of running a madrasa and was told to leave the village. Group of men beat up his brother, Saba Hasan, called him a “Pakistani” and a “terrorist” and asked them to leave the State.
Communal tension gripped Kanpur as more than half-a-dozen vehicles were set ablaze and a dozen people injured after two groups from different religious groups clashed during Muharram procession in Parampurwa area. In the words of local sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity, the clash erupted when a group of people from the Muslim community attempted to take out Tazia procession through a Hindu-dominated area without requesting for prior permission from authorities.
A mob on Sunday forcibly entered a couple’s home and tried to assault them in Hapur district. What sparked their anger allegedly was that 25-year-old Shoaib had married 24-year-old Vidya Bharti Srivastava. The couple was living in a rented accommodation at Devlok Colony in Hapur.  The woman’s parents had reached Hapur to meet them. A few minutes later, several locals barged into the house and attempted to assault Shoaib. The police rushed to the spot. When they heard of the matter, they used some force to disperse the attackers.
A mob on 24/09/2017 forcibly entered a couple’s home and tried to assault them in Hapur district. What sparked their anger allegedly was that 25-year-old Shoaib had married 24-year-old Vidya Bharti Srivastava last month. Shoaib has been running a local computer centre since the last six years. Vidya was his neighbour in their hometown of Sitamarhi district in Bihar. “Last month, Shoaib came to Hapur along with Vidya and she converted to Islam. On August 28, both got married in court. The woman was in regular touch with her family and they did not file any complaint with the police when she had left home either,” said Samarjeet Singh, Station House Officer, City Kotwali police station. The couple were living in a rented accommodation at Devlok Colony in Hapur. “On 24th September, the woman’s parents had reached Hapur to meet them. A few minutes later, several locals barged into the house and attempted to assault Shoaib,” said the SHO.
Over 500 meat shops were forcefully shut down in Gurugram during Navrati by Shiv Sena workers. All the restaurants were notified not to used raw meat in their restaurants. They were threatened to face consequences if they would indulge in non-veg during the nine days. Shops in Palam Vihar, Sohna, Surat Nagar, Ashok Vihar, Sector 5 and 9, Pataudi Chowk, Jacobpura and others were forcefully closed.
A men of hindu community protested against the muslims in Khatauli. Interfaith marriage of Parul Jain and Firoz was the reason behind the violence. Parul was pregnant then. Shops of the muslims were attacked and the men broke into the muslim family. Accused Pushpendra allegedly used to tease Parul during college days and threatened their family after her marriage with Firoz. Police registered FIR against the victim family for allegedly threatening for the marriage of the two.
In Nuh District of Haryana, a boy from Khadkhadi village- Munfaid alias Chauda s/o Islam- was killed in a police encounter on 16.09.2017. The victim’s father has in a written statement alleged that in the evening of 15/9/2017, his son called him and his father in law (Khurshid s/o Rehmat) to village Tekadi, PS Nuh. There Munfaid told them that CIA Staff members namely, Vikrant, Shakti Singh, Satish and Siddharth had called him to Rewari. Upon meeting them, they told Munfaid that they will close all the false cases registered against him if he does some work for them.  The victim’s father and Father in Law, in order to escape the everyday harassment by the police, advised Munfaid to do whatever the police are asking him to do. Thereafter, on the morning of 16.09.2016, the victim’s father was informed that his son was shot at Kala Pahad ki Ghhati, Tauru Nuh Road at around 2-3 am. In his complaint, the father has alleged that the above named officials have conspired and murdered his son. He went to the Mortuary of Nuh Hospital, where he identified the dead body of his son. However, in a blatant attempt to cover up the incident by the police, the FIR lodged by the Police, is not based on the statement given by the victim’s father. The FIR is infact based on the statement given by Inspector Mastana, CIA Staff, Nuh, Haryana. The FIR bearing No. 0358, dated 16.09.2017, filed at 10.39am, in PS Tauru, District Nuh, u/s 302, 201 IPC and Section 25 Arms Act, 1959, has been filed against unknown accused persons.  The FIR states that Inspector Mastana, came across a white pick up truck in an abandoned mining Kanta in Tauru Ghhati, where he found a person grievously injured. The victim was taken to Nalhad Hospital, Nuh, where he was declared dead. It was found that the person was shot in his neck by unknown people. The CIA Staff contacted the police station, and the FIR was thus registered.
New Delhi, Sep 16: Slain Haryana dairy farmer Pehlu Khan's family on Friday said they fear for their life while attending the court case in Rajasthan and demanded transfer of the case outside the state. They alleged that they are getting death threats from those who were involved in Khan's lynching and the local political leaders associated with the state's ruling party BJP.      While addressing a press conference, Irshad Khan, son of 55-year-old Pehlu Khan who was lynched by a mob of Gau Rakshaks in Alwar district of Rajasthan in April this year, said he and his family have lost faith in the Rajasthan police after it recently gave a clean chit to six main accused of the lynching. He said that his family has decided to appeal to the Supreme Court for a thorough probe into the 1st April incident under its watch. The six men were named by Khan senior in his dying statement before a police office at hospital bed.
Dravidar Viduthalai Kazhagam (DVK) activist and atheist H Farook (31), was murdered in Coimbatore on Thursday night on the orders of a Muslim right wing group who is also Bengaluru blast convict, said reports. He was an iron scrap merchant from Bilal Estate in South Ukkadam.  Farook, who belonged to pro-Periyar rationalist group DVK, was killed because of a Facebook post in which one of his children held a placard saying ‘Kadavul illai, Kadavul illai, Kadavul illai (No God, No God, No God)’.  The suspect, M Asradh (31), has surrended. But police believe the murder was carried out by a gang of four belonging to a banned group.  Asradh surrendered before a district magistrate confessing to the murder
A Hindu-Muslim couple who got married in August, has moved the Bombay High Court's Nagpur bench alleging harassment by local Bajrang Dal members. The court issued a notice and asked why a legal marriage between two consenting adults was being targeted. The petitioner, Mohammad Arif Dosani, a resident of Vasmath in Hingoli district, has alleged in his petition that his marriage with Monica Ingle, now Aayat after conversion, had entered into wedlock following love-affair but the police officers from Imamwada police station PSI Amol Jadhav and PI Ramakant Dhurve constantly harassed them as well as his relatives at the instance of Bajrang Dal men, who had gheraoed the police station on September 1 calling the marriage as love jihad.
A mob set ablaze three houses belonging to a Muslim man who allegedly slaughtered cows on Eid ul-Adha in Jharkhand’s Giridih district. Tension simmered in the twin villages of Naitand and Bariabad villages of the district on Saturday after Rahman Mian’s houses in Naitand were gutted. Extra security forces were deployed at the spot soon after the incident to prevent the tension from snowballing.
Mob set 3 houses on fire for slaughtering cow on the event of Eid-ul-zuha. Four were injured and additional police was called to prevent further mishap. Rehman (absconding) slaughtered three cows in his house and was about to distribute the meat when incident took place according to the police. Six people were arrested while Rehman was absconding.
Communal tension over slaughter in Eid Al Adha. Mob lit a fire, blocked traffic, and pelted stones at a convoy of policemen to protest alleged sacrifice of a cow on Eid ul-Adha. approximately 30 people were initially detained for questioning, Dhurat Sayli Savlaram, Araria’s superintendent of police, said a total of 13 people — both Hindu and Muslim — had been arrested for cow slaughter, and for rioting.
45 Rohingy families living in the outskirts of Mujedi village, Ballabhgarh were initially confronted by the locales who objected to the possible sacrifice of 2 buffalo calves tied to a tree. After the victims promised to sell them back in the market the next day, they were left alone. However, in the wee hours of next day, 15-20 men attacked the camp, severely beating 4 men after taking them in the jungle and assaulting 2 women. They were further warned against filing a complaint
Two persons were allegedly lynched by a mob, which dragged them out of a pick-up van carrying cows, at Barhoria village in Jalpaiguri district on Sunday, the police said. Anwar Hussain (19) and Hafizul Sheikh (19) were beaten to death by the mob, which intercepted their vehicle and pulled them out of it in the early hours, the police said, adding that the pick-up van was also badly damaged by the mob. Police took Hussain and Sheikh to the Dhupguri hospital where they were declared brought dead. The police also took charge of the animals in the vehicle. A large contingent of police was deployed in the area.
An elderly Muslim man in Rajouri district in the Jammu region of Jammu and Kashmir was beaten up by Gau Rakshaks, over suspicion of cattle smuggling spread in the area. A rumor of him being dead was also circulated in the village, which later was proven to be factually wrong.
In Adauli, Bulandshahr mob attack on another community members because of the cow’s carcass was found in the pond after which the carcass was sent to post-mortem and then buried. After, the police went the group of another community youth started beating and loot the houses of the locals of Adauli village and also destroyed the two Mosques.SP (city) Praveen Ranjan said, “A PAC battalion has been deployed in the Area. And, people also gone from the area because of the fear and people from both sides have been arrested and ten others were taken into custody for interrogation. In these many peoples were beaten due to the stone pelting.
A mob comprising
A Hindu man faced 28 years of a social boycott since he married a Muslim woman. As per the statement was given to the media, he claimed that his marriage was not accepted anywhere and as the Hindu society was being very unsupportive, he embraced Islam. after marriage, his wife was assigned a Hindu name but as the discrimination continued for a long time they decided to convert to Islam. the man is now renamed as Ghulam Mohammed.
Two cattle traders were brutally beaten by cow vigilantes on Yamuna Expressway while transporting the buffaloes to Hapur. Accused men tried to stop the truck after hearing animal's voice from the truck but the driver didn't stop the truck. The truck was later caught at toll plaza where the two were beaten badly by the vigilantes. Police arrested the victims for carrying 18 (limit exceeded) buffaloes in one truck under Animal Act.
Aroli village witnessed communal tension after a cow carcass was found in a pond. According to Patrika, the violence emerged as a result of slaughtered cow in a field. This happened during Eid-ul-adha. Hindu Yuva Vahini broke out on the muslim community of  the village and attacked two mosques. Houses of muslims were looted and attacked. Additional police force was called to control the situation. Some muslims fled to other safe places because of fear of getting attacked.
Seven Muslim men were beaten by a mob of about 50 attackers in Dumra, Bihar over rumours that they were eating beef. The mob including members of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad, barged into the home of Mohammad Sahabuddin and beat him with sticks, alleging that Shahabuddin had killed a cow the night before and him and his neighbours were eating the meat. His neighbours were also brought to his house, locked in a room with him and beaten. Those arrested for the incident, are the men who were targeted, not their attackers. Kudus Qureshi, the husband of the village local head who had allegedly tried to stop the attack was arrested along with 6 others and named on a FIR on charges of hurting religious sentiments of a local majority community.
Four persons were allegedly thrashed by a vigilante group on the suspicion of being cow smugglers in a remote tribal village in Betul district, with the video of the incident going viral on social media. After a video of the incident, went viral on social media, police registered separate cases against the assailants as well as the alleged cow smugglers.  Sub Divisional Officer of Police Prem Singh Thakur said that, “A case was registered against Shyam, Manak, Sundar Parate and others (part of the cow vigilante group) for assault”. All of them were absconding. Also, another case was registered against the four persons, all residents of Rehatgao in neighbouring Harda district, for alleged cow smuggling, he said. “These cow smugglers have been arrested. We are investigating the video clip, and will take further action accordingly,” the police officer said.
The victims were badly beaten by a mob of cow vigilantes for allegedly transporting and smuggling beef. The incident took place in Ara when the accused were driving the truck with meat.  The meat was seized and sent for investigation.The victims were arrested.
A truck allegedly carrying beef was set on fire by a mob after it turned turtle in Odisha’s coastal Ganjam district on Sunday. The truck was on its way from Bhubaneswar to Andhra Pradesh when it overturned at Randa under Golanthara police station limits. As the driver and cleaner of the truck got a crane to lift the vehicle, blood spilled onto the road. “A mob led by local VHP and Bajrang Dal activists reached the spot and forced open the doors of the vehicle. When they saw meat packed in plastic sacks, they became angry and set fire to the truck,” said Ganjam superintendent of police Ashis Singh. “The area is also stronghold of BJP,” he added.
Farhan Azmi, son of SP leader, Abu Azmi filed a complaint with the Mumbai Police alleging death threat for marrying a Hindu woman. The caller also allegedly made remarks against the Muslim community and threatened to bomb Azmi's house. The police registered an FIR based on the complaint.
A man undergoing treatment for mental illness was tied to a tree and beaten up over an alleged attempt to steal cattle. Police said no FIR has been registered as there was no complaint from either side. According to police, Mohammad Afroz, who is in his mid-20s and is a resident of Wasseypur in Dhanbad, was in Dharjori Tuesday evening. When he saw some cows grazing, he started shepherding three of them, triggering suspicion among villagers, said police.
Two years after an inter-religious marriage, a Muslim man was shot dead allegedly by his in-laws. The couple were back home in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar for their son's birthday. Naseem Khan was shot when he left to buy a birthday cake for his son.
A Muslim dairy owner was critically wounded and his house set on fire by a mob in a Jharkhand village after a headless carcass of a cow was found near his home, police said.  Thirty police personnel were injured as a frenzied crowd of around 1,000, including some self-appointed cow protectors, laid siege to 55-year-old Usman Ansari’s house in Giridih district’s Bariabad on Tuesday afternoon.  “Police had to resort to lathi-charge and air firing to quell the mob so that the victim and his family could be saved,” Giridih superintendent of police Akhilesh B Variar said on Wednesday, adding around 25 people were detained.
A CCTV footage of Madina Masjid captured a masked man entering the mosque and firing at old Shabbir who was reciting Quran at that hour of night. The masked man was carrying a bag and left after attacking Shabbir. The old man was dead till the time he came into notice of the people. The perpetrator was not identified, police was appointed in nearby areas.
Three cattle traders were brutally beaten by some 10-15 men who followed them to Alson on motorcycles. The traders were returning from Faridabad. The perpetrators also grabbed the beard of Mustaqeem hurting his religious sentiments. The perpetrators fled when some policemen reached the spot. An FIR was registered against the unidentified men.
BJP worker Salim Ismail Shah was beaten by cow vigilantes for carrying beef. They thrashed Ismail brutally on his neck and face and later he was admitted to a nearby hospital. After the forensic investigation, the meat was found to be of cow and charges were filed against the victim. The party would take strict actions against the victim for carrying beef. The accused were arrested by the police for taking law in their hand and assaulting the victim.
Around 200 Madrasa students who were coming back to Karnataka after Ramzan vacation were detained for 7 hours under suspicion that they were being trafficked. The police investigated the both the students who were between the age group of 10-16 years including girls and their instructors. Some rumor fled that the students were being trafficked and the police reached the station to check into the matter. Some students lacked their proper identity cards. The students and their instructors were freed when they were found unambiguous.
Bajrang Dal activists protesting the terror attack on Amarnath pilgrims allegedly asked a Muslim man to shout
Around 150-200 bajrang dal members were protesting in front of the mosque against the Amarnath Terror attack saying
Tension prevailed at Pichkaura village in Baghpat, after a Hindu girl appeared before a local court claiming that she had married a Muslim youth. Police had to escort Komal (22), who was accompanied by her husband Salman (24), to a safe place, as members of Hindu outfits and locals gathered outside the court protesting the marriage on Monday. Now, members of RSS affiliate, Hindu Jagaran Manch, have decided to try to convince the girl to return to her family and also hold a mahapanchayat in this regard. Meanwhile, fearing attack by the girl’s family and locals, Salman’s family has fled the village. Salman’s father Sabbir Ali and his four uncles, along with their family members, left the village on Tuesday morning. In all, 24 members of these families have left.
The homes of two dozen Muslim families were torched on Saturday in Madhya Pradesh after a youth from the community eloped with a minor Rajput girl. “If you don’t hand over the man and our girl within two hours, we will set every house on fire. If you don’t leave the village after that and try to intervene, no one will be spared,’’ a section of Hindu villagers had allegedly warned Muslims before torching almost every property owned by Muslims.
Sehore witnessed communal tension after a minor girl of Rajput family eloped with a muslim boy. FIR was filed for missing of the girl while people belonging to hindu community created communal tension in the area. Around 20 houses were set on fire and many people suffered minor injuries, rest fled to other places to safeguard themselves.
Mob incited to demolish makeshift mosque in Delhi through Facebook and Whatsapp messagesOn June 7, a video was published on Facebook by the Milli Gazette, a digital publication, showing a group of people demolishing the walls of brick structure. The structure was a makeshift mosque which had been built earlier this year by the Muslim residents of Ambey Enclave, a small settlement near Sonia Vihar in northeastern Delhi.
Six muslim traders were transporting buffaloes from Haryana to Delhi in a truck legally. Around 50-60 men stopped them and beaten them badly even when they pleaded that they were carrying all the legal documents. Another seventh trader got off the truck and called the police. The perpetrators fled seeing the police. One of the six victims was badly injured and was admitted to a nearby hospital for treatment, others were discharged from the hospital after treatment. The unidentified perpetrators were not arrested even after 24 hours of the incident.
BJP MLA, through a facebook post, had threatened muslims that if they hinder in the construction of Ram Temple, they will not be allowed to go on hajj. He also tried to call upon people to take revenge of Amarnath Yatra attack. He demanded to remove the subsidy on hajj and repeal the minority status of muslims.
A Muslim man from Uttar Pradesh’s Aligarh district was caught wearing a burqa in order to escape lynching by Hindu mobs while travelling on a train. On 02/07/2017, a 42-year-old assistant engineer in Aligarh was caught wearing a burqa on the train by police, however, when quizzed by authorities, Nazmul Hassan said he was scared of being lynched for being a Muslim, The Times of India reported. According to the report, Hassan was threatened a week back by a fellow traveller when he was going to Delhi to meet an ailing family member. “I had read about Junaid’s killing in a train in Ballabhgarh a few days ago. I was scared for my life after the threat, but couldn’t avoid travelling. So I thought of wearing a burqa,” he said.
Communal clash broke out in the area over a controversial Facebook post regarding a holy site. Police vehicles were also attacked. Shops and houses of both hindus and muslims were set on fire. Clashes continued till 4-5 days and situation came under control after appointing paramilitary forces. Teenager boys were behind the post which was posted by a hindu man. Minors were kept in juvenile prison and were released on bail later.
A truck carrying cattle with all the legal documents was stopped by a group in Sonapur. People carrying the cattle trade were brutally beaten by cow vigilantes in Sonapur, Guwahati. The traders had all the legal documents of cattle trading still the mob had beaten divers and helpers both brutally.
Verbal fight in the market area led to fist fight the next day in village Pitar of Raghunathpur, Siwan in which around 12 people were injured. Police from Raghunathpur police station reached the spot and controlled the mob. Markets remained closed to control further mishaps and forces were appointed in the hospitals where injured were admitted.
A kashmiri student of Zoology, CCSU was attacked by three masked men in the campus. The victim was asked his name and background and was attacked because he hails from Kashmir. His mobile phone was also looted and the accused threatened him to kill. The police is investigating into the matter through every angle.
Alimuddin, also known as Asgar Ansari, was driving his Maruti van when he was stopped and brutally attacked by a group of people near Bajartand village in Ramgarh district. A senior officer said the police
Police raided the illegally running butcher-shop in Khalapar and arrested three men. People broke out on the police and the arrested men fled. A clash between the police and the Muslims emerged, people pelted stones. Police resorted to open-firing to control the situation which injured a woman. More than 24 were arrested including the guests of a house.
Headless carcass of a cow was found near victim's house. Usman Ansari ran a dairy was suspected for cow slaughter and the mob broke into his house, had beaten him severely and his house was put on fire. He sustained severe injuries, police tried to take him to hospital for which the mob revolted in which more than 30 policemen were injured. Police open fire to control the stone pelting mob during which a woman got injured. Situation was brought under control and the family was moved to a safer place under police protection.
A family of 10 was travelling in a train when a group of 30-35 people attacked them, including women, children and a handicapped, with rods and sticks for being muslim. Eight of them were seriously injured while 2 sustained minor injuries. A woman accused them of beating and taking their jewelry away.  The mob allegedly tore the clothes of the women and groped them.
A muslim man was brutally beaten by a mob on suspicion of cow slaughter after they had found a cow carcass outside the victim's house. His house was set on fire and his family was also attacked by the perpetrators. The perpetrators also attacked policemen when they tried to rescue the victim. Stones were pelted on the police in which around 50 were injured. Additional force was appointed to control the situation and the police resorted to lathi charge and open-firing to control the mob. The victim was admitted to a hospital and some people were arrested for the act.
In Muzaffarnagar district of U.P. is turned into the violent area when police go there for searching the evidence of cow slaughtering. When they don't find any evidence then they beat people's and entered their houses for evidence and due to this behavior people's turn violent and burn two vehicles of police and pelting stones on them after which police forces deployed there.
A 42-year-old Muslim woman Otera bibi died after she was allegedly assaulted by a mob suspecting her of being a child-lifter, at Sekendra village of Murshidabad district on Tuesday. Police claim she was mentally-challenged and unlikely to have been a child-lifter.
A 70-year-old maulvi, Mohammad Younus, was shot dead by four unidentified persons inside a mosque. He was shot when he intercepted them after they threw a piece of meat on the premises of the mosque.
16 year old, Junaid stabbed to death and his brothers were injured on board a Mathura-bound train. An argument over a seat took a communal turn and triggered a mob attack on the boys returning home from Eid shopping in Delhi. The incident took place on Thursday evening between Okhla and Asoti in Haryana, a distance of about 60 km. The four injured told Hindustan Times at Khaddawli, a small village in Haryana’s Faridabad district, the attackers repeatedly called them “anti-nationals” and “beef eaters”, threw their skull caps on the floor, caught their beards and taunted them with terms such as “mulla”. Junaid was allegedly stabbed to death and four others were injured on board a Mathura-bound train when an argument over a seat turned into religious slurs and triggered a mob attack on family members returning home from Eid shopping. Kamaldeep Goyal, a superintendent of the Government Railway Police (GRP) said they are also probing allegations that one their officers was present at Ballabgarh when the train stopped but did nothing to save the youth.  6 men including a Delhi government employee were arrested for the murder. One accused was released on bail in July 2017.   In November 2017, Additional AG was rapped by court and asked to resign for helping the defense lawyer.  In December 2017, family, believing that police is helping the accused, filed a plea requesting for investigation by CBI. The plea was dismissed since CBI itself submitted that State Police is equipped enough to investigate and that case is already on trial.
Three men were beaten to death in West Bengal’s North Dinajpur district on Thursday after they were allegedly caught stealing cows from a house under Chopra police station area. The police have arrested three people in connection with the case so far. The deceased have been identified as Nasirul Haque (30), a resident of Kutipara, Mohammad Samiruddin (32), resident of Kandarpara and Md Nasir (33) from Dhalugunj. While Nasirul was taken to Islampur subdivisional hospital after the incident and succumbed to his injuries there, the other two died on the spot.  Bail was granted to the main accused, while investigation was still ongoing.   The family members complained that none from administration and political parties had come to meet them after the murders. They alleged that police had wrongly branded them cattle lifters but in reality, a common friend had called them for a meeting and the three were killed.
Around 2-4 bikers threw a piece of meat, alleged as pork, inside the mosque premises when Yunus and Jabbar were returning after performing namaz. The two tried to stop the perpetrators when the bikers opened fire on them in which 70-year old Yunus died and Jabbar escaped somehow. Tension emerged in the area and no festive ambiance was seen on Eid. The body was taken for post-mortem and the villagers were assured of arresting the perpetrators.
Passengers on board a Mathura-bound train from Delhi allegedly stabbed a man to death and injured three of his cousins on suspicion that they were carrying beef
A Muslim man was assaulted by an angry mob for allegedly trying to take beef to an Iftar party at Barbadda village in Jharkhand’s Dhanbad district. The victim – identified as 35-year-old Ainul Ansari – was admitted to the Patliputra Medical College Hospital. Police said Ansari, a resident of Murahdih, was headed to Barbadda village on a scooter when 20 people stopped him at Loharbarba. A team led by Barbadda police station officer-in-charge Dinesh Kumar reached the scene soon afterwards, and rescued Ansari. “The irate mob insisted that we search the victim’s scooter. We did so, and recovered meat – probably beef – from its storage compartment,” said Kumar. Ansari’s wife, Sahida Begum, denied the allegation. “We planned to hold an Iftar party at our house on Tuesday evening. Ansari was bringing mutton for the event, but the villagers mistook it for beef,” she said. She also told the media that the attackers had snatched his mobile and Rs. 1,500 during the assault
Three alleged thieves (
Shops belonging to muslims were set on fire by some unknown persons. The act was allegedly done because of the victory of Pakistan over India in a cricket match. Some adjoining shops belonging to Hindus were also burnt. Around 11 families lost their source of livelihood that too during Ramzan. Fire brigade was called and the fire was called off but most of the shops were completely shattered.
17 men raised Pro-Pakistan slogans and burst crackers in the village of Madhya Pradesh after India's defeat in the ICC champions Trophy final. They were charged with sedition under Section 120B (Criminal Conspiracy) and 124A (Sedition) of IPC. Police said that more people can be arrested as investigation progresses.However the charges of sedition has been dropped against them and now they are only having charge of Section 153A (disturbing Communal Harmony). the accused has been sent to Khandwa Jail.
In this incident, the Headmistress Rosa, had asked Birju, her helper, to get the meat and prepare it in the utensils which were used for mid-day meals for students. Some students with their parents approached the police saying that their religious sentiments have been hurt. Till the time police reached the school which was 8 km from the police station, nothing was left of the beef. Police investigated and got to know that she had been employed as the headmistress of that particular school for a long time and no previous case has been registered against her. Also, the mid day meal that day had already been served and many students had gone home. However, a few students were around and the local residents also got a whiff of the meat being cooked, which raised the alarm. Police sources said situation is calm now.
A 44-year old man, Zafar Hussain, was beaten to death by the police officials. According to the eyewitnesses, some women were defecating in open and some police officials tried to click their pictures. Zafar tried to stop them and he was beaten with lathis, stones and punches. He died on the spot but the post-mortem reports said that the victim died due to heart failure.
Communal clash erupted in Bhopal over land dispute of a mosque. The two communities faced each other with violence. Numerous shops and houses were set on fire, dozen of police vehicles were also burnt. Many, including police, were injured in the clash. Police resorted to tear gas to control the situation.
Ghulam Mohammad was lynched by Mob on 3 June 2017 for allegedly providing support to inter-religious marriage couple. Now his after one year his family is facing regular harassment and the only way they is to leave the village
Rumor of cow slaughtering was spread after which the police reached Sherpur village of district Muzaffarnagar to sift. Police checked the refrigerators and utensils of the muslim villagers but found nothing. When no evidence of cow slaughter was found the police harassed the muslim women. Out of anger, muslims protested against the police but it started firing the mob which injured around 12 people. Muslims started stone pelting in which few policemen were injured. They allegedly burnt the police vehicles which were parked very far away from the residential area.
Tension in the village arose on dispute over place of worship. Muslims were stopped to perform namaz in the village. House of accused Ahmed Ali delivered religious teachings where some people came to offer namaz but were threatened to do so. Muslims of the village live in fear and are ready to flee because their right to freedom is being violated.
Two peoples in Malegaon Maharashtra were assaulted by the cow vigilantes on possessing cow meat. The cow vigilantes beat them and shouted slogans and claimed that they were possessing cow meat. police also arrested 9 peoples in this incident including victims and send meat sample for the test.
A group of cow vigilantes thrashed two meat traders in Malegaon area on suspicion of possessing beef. The incident that happened on Friday saw the men assaulting and abusing them. The whole incident was captured on mobile camera and made available by news agency ANI. In the video, one of the assailants was seen slapping the victim and demanding him to say “jai Sri Ram”. They were later heard talking about taking the victims to the police station.
The four sewadars from Khairthal village Alwar were thrashed in Ajmer by the violent Mob. According to the victims they were going to Ajmer for donation but the mob surrounded them and beat them. They were dragged out from the police van by the mob and beaten them for up to 30 minutes. One of them also suffered serious injuries. The policeman said to the mob that
Sudhanshu Tyagi, an election candidate openly delivered a threat speech to discontinue the mosque if the muslim villagers would not vote for him. Villagers complained about the behavior of police.The police erased the name of the mosque's which was written on it and the state of fear among muslim remained in continuance.
A group of cow vigilantes assaulted five people including the railway staff. Two cattle traders were transporting cows to Guwahati and Meghalaya when the vigilantes attacked them alleging cow trafficking. When the station master and driver came to the two, mob assaulted the staff too.
A minor accident led to communal violence in the village injuring around 12 including women. As per reports, Mustaqeem and Vinod had a minor hit between their motorcycles which led to verbal fights. Following this, communal tension emerged, hindus attacked muslims with stones, bricks and lathis. More than 12 were injured including women who sustained major injuries. Heavy police was appointed in the area and the injured were admitted to a nearby hospital. FIR was lodged against the perpetrators and some of them were arrested.
Anti-Muslim posters surfaced in two villages of Uttar Pradesh’s Bareilly district over the past week, prompting a police investigation against suspected hate-mongers trying to provoke communal tension. The posters ask Muslims to stop using loudspeakers for the azaan and to leave the village by the year-end. Kargaina is a thickly populated village on the Bareilly-Badaun highway. Of its population of 9,000, around 3,000 are Muslims, who mostly live on one side of the village. “The poster says ‘sarkar hamari aa gayi hai, sudhar jao (mend your ways, our government is in power)’ and was signed ‘gaon ke sabhi Hindu (Hindus of the village)’,” said Taqi Ahmed, a mosque caretaker.
Munna Ansari, on his way to Ranchi from Kolkata in a bus found himself surrounded by a group of men near Beldih Basti who interrogated him about his identity and residence. The mob did not allow him to speak and started beating him up, accusing him of being a child lifter. Police rescued Ansari and rushed him to the hospital. 9 more people after him have been accused of the same. NHRC has shown serious concern over the issue and steps are being taken to curb it.
The newly constructed Lady of Fathima Church in Kundapalli village near Hyderabad was vandalised by a group of miscreants, who reportedly broke statues of Jesus and Mother Mary. Police booked the villagers for rioting.
Two muslim minors were brutally beaten by some Bajrang Dal activists in Muzaffarnagar on the accusations of eve-teasing. The victims had allegedly teased two hindu girls following which the accused beaten the two minors. They pulled out their clothes and had beaten them with belts. Cross FIRs had been filed.
Minaret of a mosque was demolished by an unidentified mob at night. The incident happened after the ultimatum given by BJP MLA Sanjeev Raja. Muslims of the area were very angry as their religious sentiments were hurt. Police force was appointed in the area to prevent further clash. FIR against unidentified men were lodged.
A mob of people attacked a very old mosque of Sambhaoli and broke its walls. The family of the cleric residing in the mosque was also attacked. A sense of communal tension emerged in the area. The situation was later under control. The police operated with both the communities equally.
On 18 May in Kundapur, Karnataka, the properties of two churches were damaged by unidentified miscreants, an ornamental pot at the entrance of the Holy Rosary Church was broken and a signpost leading to St. Antony Church  in Koteshwar, was uprooted.
A resident of Ghatsila in East Singhbhum district, Naeem and his cattle trader companions were passing through Sobhapur early in the morning on Thursday. Villagers along the Tata-Chaibasa road stopped their SUV, dragged the four people out and tortured them for four hours before killing them. Jalauddin said Naeem, his brother-in-law, was an affable man. He took good care of his aging parents and groomed his children well. Naeem’s wife is a deputy village head. The family declined to accept a compensation of Rs 2 lakh offered by the district administration. They, and people in their villagers, demanded the chief minister meet them and promise justice.   Naeem was the last to die, even though the police had reached the spot before the last of fatal blows landed on him.Outnumbered, the police did not intervene. Naeem was killed before the presence of PS In-charge and one ASI. Sajjad and Siraj were killed at Padnamsai village 10 Kilometers away from Shobhapur and Sheikh Halim, his relative was killed in the nearby hill. The Hindu residents of Kamalpur, however, in their defense claimed that the murders happened because the deceased were suspected to be child thieves, however, they contradicted their previous statement by stating that the Muslim men were actually cow smugglers. Why would they be out at the wee hour of the night? They defended. They suspected they were butchers who were looking for cows in the area to steal and sell them to town area for profit.  It is reported that two rumors were spread in the area – of child lifters and consumption of beef. Members of the local Gau Rakshak Dal reported to be spreading rumors
Police officials of Balrampur received news of beef transporting in the area. It reached the area and chased the car in which beef was being carried. The driver escaped and the car was taken to police station. The officials later on raided the muslim houses and attacked the materialistic things, broken the doors and abused women even when no proof of beef was found. They had arrested muslim women without accompanying any women police officer.
Apuda Malviya was brutally assaulted by suspected vigilantes on the suspicion of injuring a cow in Madhya Pradesh’s Ujjain district. Two of the accused have been arrested by the police. A mob of around five-six men beating the victim using belts and slippers. Ignoring his pleas, the assailants punched, slapped and kicked him. Several men can be heard shouting “gau-kattu banega (You dare harm cows)” while assaulting him. One of the assailants can also be heard saying “gaaye hamari mata hai (Cow is our mother)”.
Enraged by the elopement of a girl from their community with a Muslim youth, the Yadavs of the area vandalised over six Muslim households. A motorcycle was also torched in protest. The police arrested six people on charges of rioting, and raids are underway to arrest the remaining nine named in the FIR, said cops. Meanwhile, heavy police force has been deployed in and around Nandrauli to prevent any further clashes. After the couple’s elopement, the girl’s family had lodged a case of kidnapping against two Muslims. Later on the angry Yadavs had attacked some houses belonging to Muslims. To control the situation, police was deployed in the village.
6 men were thrashed by a mob in Aligarh, Uttar Pradesh after they were caught slaughtering a buffalo illegally, inside the premises of a private diary. The owner of the dairy, Kalu Baghel, had sold a buffalo to cattle trader Imran after it stopped yielding milk. A huge crowd of protesters quickly reached the dairy and began thrashing Imran and the butchers.
In Banswara Rajasthan during a festival 'Sabha-e-Barat' communal clash occurs between two community due to the religious side and due to this, they pelting stones on each and on the police also. In this clash mob torch houses and vehicles and three people's were injured in this clash. Police imposed a curfew and start peace talks between two communities.
The incident took place in a dairy owned by a local named Kalu Baghel in Aligarh’s Pannaganj area. According to Baghel, he had sold a buffalo to a man named Imran after it had stopped giving milk. Imran bought the bovine on the condition that he would slaughter it in the dairy compound and sell the meat. As the animal was slaughtered inside the dairy unit, its blood flowed out and within minutes a mob of locals barged into the compound and thrashed all those slaughtering the animal. While the cow vigilantes were let off, Baghel, Imran and the butchers have been arrested. No case has been registered against the attackers.
Khadak Pada chowk had witnessed hateful protest lead by Hindutva groups. The mob which included women with weapons like swords came on streets and pretested against muslim population. They were saying that a day would come when India would be an islamic state and so hindus must be united.
On Tuesday, Ghulam Mohammad was in the mango orchard he had looked after for most of his life when “seven or eight men” carrying lathis arrived, forced him on to a motorcycle and took him to a field nearby. They left him there, bleeding from the head and with deep wounds on his chest and several broken ribs. In complaint to police, Mohammad’s son Vakil Ahmad alleged that his father was beaten to death by members of the Hindu Yuva Vahini (HYV), founded by Yogi Adityanath, now the UP Chief Minister. He claimed that his uncle, Islam Khan, saw Mohammad being forced on to a bike by “seven or eight men wearing saffron gamchhas (towels) around their heads”.
Giant hoardings asking “stone-pelting Kashmiris” to leave Uttar Pradesh have sprung up across Meerut in the communally sensitive belt, raising concerns over security of hundreds of students from the militancy-hit state.  Police said on Thursday they have asked the controversial ‘Uttar Pradesh Nav Nirman Sena’, which admitted to have put up the warning signs, to pull down the hoardings or face action.  A case has been registered against Amit Jani, the leader of the organisation, for allegedly spreading communal hatred and will be arrested soon, police added.
Two Muslim men,  Reazuddin and Abu hanifa were beaten to death by stick-weilding Indian villagers who suspected them of stealing cows, police said on Monday. Police in Nagaon district said they had registered a murder case over the deaths of Abu Hanifa and Riyazuddin Ali on Sunday. Two suspects have been detained for questioning. The Human Rights Watch report says that since the Hindu-nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party formed India's federal government in 2014, attacks against Muslims and Dalits (formerly known as untouchables) have risen over rumours that they sold, bought or killed cows for beef.
In a case of vigilantism, a mob attacked police injured the SDPO and several other policemen. The vigilantes got the information about cows being transported in three vehicles for slaughter. Police also stopped the vehicles with cattle, but later knew about the tradition they seemed to have allowed the trucks, which angered the cow vigilantes.
A bag full of meat was thrown in the premises of a mosque which angered the muslims of the area. The incident took place after Fajr namaz (morning) when people were coming out after performing namaz. Angered people blocked the road. Police came and promised for a fair investigation after which the road was unblocked later.
In Giridih Jharkhand clash occurs between peoples and police when people know about the smuggling of cattle then they stop the three trucks and one of them circulate wrong information after which tension takes place and police wants to clear that place in which mob throws stones on them and 12 policemen's and 7persons injured. In this incident police charged file against 20 persons and three others charged on the act of cruelty on Animals.
This attack was in connection to the detention of 6 Bajrang dal members for attacking Muslim grocers. A large mob attacked the Fatehpur Sikri and Sadar police stations of Agra, beating up a Deputy SP, a station house officer and looted away a sub inspector's pistol. Several vehicles were damaged and a motorcycle set on fire before the mob could be brought under control. The attackers set a vehicle ablaze during the attack on the police station.
A day after a nomad family was allegedly attacked in Kashmir by gau rakshaks, another instance of cow vigilantism seems to have taken place, this time in Delhi. Three men were allegedly assaulted by animal rights activists in New Delhi. The truck, which was carrying 14 buffaloes, was taken to the Tis Hazari court and it is believed the animals were being transported to the Ghazipur Mandi in New Delhi.
On the occassion of Ambedkar Jayant,i a permission for procession from a particular village was asked by the BJP MP Raghav Lakhanpal Sharma, but the permission was denied as there were communal tensions in that area. But they still took the procession out from that place. Then, the people of other community started pelting stones on the procession and the police had to fire. BJP MP Lakhanpal Sharma blamed the police for not controlling the riot and led a mob to the Love Kumar's (SSP) home and incited the mob to vandalise the place, scaring the police and officer's children and relatives who were inside the house. A FIR has been filed. SSP Kumar was later transferred to Noida.
A nomadic family moving towards Talwara area with their livestock was attacked by cow vigilantes in Reasi, Srinagar. Victims stated that the accused snatched away their cattle including dogs and beat them brutally, a 10 years old child is missing. The accused had beaten all of them, even 9 years old girl. They wanted to kill the family and throw their bodies in the river.
In Meerut, UP the meat traders were protested because of denial of licenses by the MMC and according to them their right to livelihood is violated by the MMC and the yogi Adityanath government. They were demanded the Alternative jobs or license. According to the occupation and foodstuff is the right of livelihood which is exploited by the observation of the Government on the name of illegal slaughtering.
Young men, Vipul Kumar and Arjun Singh got hit by Naushad Ali's truck while reversing. Though no one was injured, the fight among the two groups arose. Police filed FIR of the one and resorted to lathicharge when people broke out.
Ernakulam rural police have registered a case against 14 BJP and RSS workers on the charge of attacking a house where a cow was allegedly slaughtered on the eve of Easter. Police said the case was registered following a complaint from a person named Kallarackal Jose of Karumallor.
A muslim boy Azhar accidentally hit a pandal which was set for a hindu marriage following which the hindu family attacked him and beated him. Azhar came back with his friends and brothers to face the family and he was attacked on chest with sickles and javelins. The area was communally tense after this incident. The accused are said to be members of RSS.
A group of hindu people broke out on muslims over an act of harassment by Askari Ansari. The married woman complaint to her husband and villages's people who in order to solve the case burnt the houses of three people. Other muslims fled to a mosque in nearby village out of fear.
Violence emerged in Shivpuri after a bag of cow carcass was found in Akhileshwar Mahadev Mandir. Perpetrators were not identified till the right wing activists protested in the area. Angry hindus protested and made the situation tensed. Heavy police force was appointed in the area and FIR was lodged against unidentified people. After all this, CCTV footage later showed that a dog brought that bag in the mandir.
Bajrang Dal members who were taking out the rally on the occasion of Mahavir Jayanti played objectionable songs near Iqra Masjid. Members from both the communities emerged raising slogans which led to the violence in the area. The mob got violent and police had to resort lathi-charge and tear gas to control the mob.
Hyderabad Police have booked controversial Bharatiya Janata Party legislator T Raja Singh for allegedly threatening to behead those who attempt to stop the construction of Ram Mandir at Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh and also making inflammatory and humiliating comments against Muslims. Singh was booked under Section 295-A of the Indian Penal Code (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs).
Communal tension erupted in Deoli after hindu people hindered the reconstruction of mosque on the orders of BJP MLA Kamal Singh. The issue was over land dispute of a mosque between the two communities.
Police in Uttar Pradesh’s Maharajganj district halted a prayer by over 100 people, including American tourists, to investigate allegations of forced conversion made by the right-wing Hindu Yuva Vahini, which was founded by Chief Minister of the state, Yogi Adityanath.
Jammu’s Chamber of Commerce and Industries has issued a 10-day ultimatum to the state government and threatened to “identify and kill” Rohingya Muslims if they were not deported soon. Speaking to reporters, outfit president Rakesh Gupta demanded that the Jammu and Kashmir administration book people renting out their properties to the ethnic group under the Public Safety Act, which allows detention without trial for six months, Rising Kashmir reported.
In Bhadrak Orrisa three youth posted bad about Hindu god and goddess 'Ram and Sita' on Facebook on the wall of Bajranj Dal ID. After, which VHP and Bajrang Dal go for protest and demand from police to arrest these peoples after which there is a clash between two community and police and Hanuman Temple is also demolished. Due to this 60 shops, 35 motorcycles were destroyed and section 144 of Crpc is imposed in the area.
Villagers in Jharkhand’s Gumla district allegedly tied a 20-year-old Muslim man to a tree and thrashed him for hours for being in love with a Hindu woman, leading to his death, police said. The man – identified as Mohammad Shalik, a resident of Raza Colony in Gumla town – was allegedly in a relationship with a Hindu woman of a nearby village, Soso, for more than a year, sources said. A group of neighbours saw Shalik and surrounded him, tied him to a tree and assaulted him for hours, the woman was quoted as saying by police. He succumbed to his injuries on Thursday. Police said they arrested three people and lodged an FIR against unnamed people
Prayers at a church in Uttar Pradesh were disrupted by a group of Hindu activists as they suspected a religious conversion in progress, police said on Saturday. Prayers at the Maharajganj church were stopped by the police after the office bearers of the Hindu Vahini created a ruckus and alleged that some people were leading a conversion event there. The Hindu Vahini leaders said that a group of foreign tourists from Ukraine and the US had come to the church with an aim to allure poor locals into converting to Christianity. Church authorities denied it
A mob carrying out procession of Ram Navami called out slogans hurting muslims of the city Nanded. They spoke out for Ram Mandir of Ayodhya creating a sense of communal tension in the area. Despite of the police security in the area, the incident happened. Markets were closed.
An RSS mob attacked the muslims praying inside the mosque on Ram Navmi. Muslims were told not to pray on Ram Navmi. The mosque was quite far from the spot of procession and the prayers were carried as always. The mob attacked the muslims praying in the mosque. The police went to arrest the perpetrators when it was attacked back and it had to safequard itself, the police fled.
During the procession of Ram Navami in Arrah which included BJP MLA Giriraj Singh, a mob of around 48 entered muslims' colony and shouted slogans provoking muslims to react. They tried to use physical assault when muslims asked them not to do so. Police reached the spot to prevent further mishap which caused panic. Lathi charge was used to control the situation. Three accused were arrested and three vehicles were taken into police custody.
Zahida Khan, a resident of Koh-e-Fiza, Bhopal was denied a house on rent as well as from buying the property by 6-7 Societies at Hoshangabad Road, Bhopal, as she was a Muslim and these societies, were Hindu dominated. Khan alleged that the owner flatly refused to sell her the house, because of her religion.
Upeda village in UP’s Hapur district has been tense for the past one week after a clash between members of two communities. A case has been lodged in connection with an attack on youths of one community. Two accused in the case have been arrested. According to Nizam, father of the complainant Shaqib, four youths from another community made an objectionable remark when Shaqib, his cousins Sameer and Suhel and their uncle Sabu were returning from a mosque after offering prayers on March 29. Nizam said Shaqib and the others avoided an argument and returned home. The accused, however, followed them and assaulted them, he alleged. He and his cousin Saleem tried to intervene, but they too were assaulted, he said.
Hapur district of Uttar Pradesh has been tensed after the communal clash between the two communities. The four youths of minority community returning from the mosque after offering prayer were commented at and later followed and assaulted by people of the majority Hindu community. One of them registered the complaint
On Monday morning police received a PCR call from an unknown person that the beef was sell in the Gandhi Nagar Area. After the call received by the police, they send a team for a search and after they check the meat sample it is found buffalo meat not cow meat.
Jharkhand is in a state of fear after the two incidences in Ranchi and Bokaro. The procession of Hanuman Jayanti played objectionable songs and slogans while passing by a mosque in Ranchi, leading to the dispute between both the sides. While in Bokaro, animal heads were hung outside houses in Sadan Bajar by anonymous men, leading both the group to stone pelting and violence.
Riyas, a 30-year-old from Kodagu in Karnataka, was hacked to death in his retiring room attached to a mosque at Choori in Kasaragod town. Mosque khatib Abdul Azeez Musaliyar, who was sleeping in another room, was woken up by the commotion. He stepped out to find a group of people throwing stones at the building. He found Riyas lying in a pool of blood, his throat slit.
Pehlu Khan, a 55-year-old Muslim man, was lynched to death on Friday when he had set out on the 240-km road trip from his home in Jaisinghpur village, in Nuh tehsil of Mewat, to Jaipur to buy a milch buffalo. A dairy farmer, he was hoping to increase milk production during Ramzan. But on Saturday, he decided to buy a milch cow instead, as the seller extracted 12 litres of milk in front of him and offered him a good deal. That decision cost him his life. “That was the worst decision ever. It took my father’s life,” said his son Irshad, 24. He and his brother, Aarif, were with Khan when they were attacked by gau rakshaks in Behror area of Alwar, on National Highway 8, on Saturday evening. Khan succumbed to injuries on Monday.  Police said Khan and at least four others were attacked even as they produced documents to show that they had purchased the cows. “Gau rakshaks affiliated with the Vishwa Hindu Parishad and Bajrang Dal stopped four vehicles, near Jaguwas crossing on National Highway 8, on Saturday evening, alleging that they were illegally transporting bovines. These vehicles were coming from Jaipur, and were headed towards Nuh district in Haryana,” said Ramesh Chand Sinsinwar, SHO, Behror police station.  In September 2017, CB CID gave clean chit to all the accused named by Pehlu Khan before dying. Further in July 2019 Alwar court accepted the police plea to investigate a cow smuggling case against Pehlu Khan and his two sons   In February 2018, Alwar police filed chargesheet against the surviving victims with allegations of cow smuggling.
Chattisgarh CM RAman Singh, attending press, threatened the beef-eaters and cow slaughterers to hang them. This remark came after implementation of cow related laws in Gujarat. He also added that no such incident had reported till then but if any such thing would happen he will hang the beef-eaters and cow slaughterers.
Muslims, apart from five localities, were restricted to perform namaz in a mosque in Gurgaon. Some non-muslims harassed them for doing so. Muslims living in the nearby area will be allowed to perform namaz and others must go somewhere else, as stated by the perpetrators. The mosque which had around 50 people now consists of only 4-6 people.
Police, in search of an accused, entered a muslim's house and harassed the women inside when accused wasn't found. They also disrespected the holy book, Quran which hurt the religious sentiments of the muslims. Muslims came on the roads to protest against the police to control which the police had to use forceful measures. Panic followed and the village was under communal tension.
A class 10th girl (name protected upon request of father) in Kasargode accused the invigilator of an exam of humiliating her by asking her twice if she was hiding chits under her headscarf, and claimed that he monitored her closely during the exam, making her uncomfortable. She is also an epileptic patient. The invigilator denied any such wrongdoing and claimed he had given a general warning to the class. The father had filed a case with the Ministry of Education.
Sudarshan TV Editor, Suresh Chavhanke was arrested by the Lucknow police for inciting hatred amongst the people of Sambhal. It was alleged that the accused telecasted a programme showing objectionable content. Tension prevailed in the city following the incident. Western UP was under tension after his act.
Some 20 people entered the mosque where Imam Ishtiyak was alone. Imam was brought out and the perpetrators tied him to a tree with ropes. He was beaten and the walls of the mosque were demolished by the mob. People gathered and violence started, stones were pelted and media reached the spot. The perpetrators assaulted one of the media-person also and snatched his mobile phone and camera.
A muslim man was assaulted by a mob of 7-8 people while travelling in a train. As the train reached Allahabad, some people stepped in and harassed the man with beard. They beaten him and looted his belongings including bag which had cash, PAN card and various other important things. His clothes were also taken away by the mob. The victim, in the FIR, alleged that the perpetrators said that in the rule of Yogi Adityanath, the men with beard (muslims) would not live.
On Saturday like any other day Amzad Belim (19) returned from the fields to have lunch with his brother Imran (21) in the afternoon, when he heard a group of young boys from neighbouring Sunsar marching towards their village shouting “we will kill you all Muslims”. “But, after elders of our village calmed them down, they returned,” said Amzad. This was first of the three angry groups, mostly comprising the Thakors from Sunsar, that had reached Vagjipara — an extended colony of nearly 1500 Muslims — at Vadavali on Saturday following a clash between school students. Amzad’s father Ibrahimkhan Lalkhan Belim (45) lost his life, while 20 others were injured, five of them seriously. All were residents of Vagjipara. Nearly 25 vehicles were gutted, similar number of homes ransacked and set afire, cattle taken away, and grains and fodder burnt in the arson. with police. One compliant (filed by Manharsinh Zala) cited a Muslim boy from Vadavali “pushing” a girl from Sunsar and the resultant fight between Hindu and Muslim school students as reasons for the violence, the other (filed by Rehmanbhai Alibhai Malek) named the Thakors as the accused. So far, no arrest has been made in this connection. Ibrahimkhan is the accused number 13 in the list of 14 in the FIR filed on the basis of Zala’s complaint. The injured are all residents of Vagjipara, an extension of Vadavali village which has about 1200 Muslim households,” says Vankar, who is a Dalit resident of the village and has been arranging food for Muslim villagers left homeless. When Ashrafbhai Sheikh spotted the raucous mob approaching on Saturday, he grabbed his family and left his house, which was burnt and looted. He claims the police did not intervene.
BJP MLA Vikram Saini threatened the beef eaters to break the limbs. He also threatened those who don't say Vande Mataram. He also added that he had a group of young boys to take against those who disrespect cow. Later, he refused to apologize. The incident took place during a felicitation function of another legislator. Saini was also charged and arrested during Muzaffarnagar riots for his hateful speech against muslims.
Some unidentified people put pamphlets inside two mosques of Bareilly. The Muslims were threatened to use loudspeakers in the mosque for prayers, as stated in the pamphlets. It also read that Muslims should learn to behave properly because the government in power was of the perpetrators. An FIR was filed against unidentified people.
Some unknown people attacked the graveyard in Dibai and broke its walls. Police officials reached the spot and prevented further mishap. People were promised to reconstruct the broken wall.
Villagers lynched a cow thief, Nasir, in Amroha district of Uttar Pradesh even as three other thieves managed to escape after firing at the locals, injuring six of them. The residents chased the thieves and caught one of them and beat him to death before the police could reach the spot.
Three meat shops were set on fire by unknown people in Hathras, UP at night. The shops belonged to Qureshi who traditionally follows the profession. The incident took place after CM Adityanath ruled out illegal slaughterhouses in the state.
Cow vigilantes protested against Hotel Rabbani around midnight for allegedly serving beef and throwing remnants in an outside park. The hotel was sealed by the JMC and the police arrested the victims for not discharging garbage properly and causing public nuisance. SHO himself stated that the meat was chicken prima facie but would be send to forensic lab for further investigation.
A Jaipur hotel that was sealed in March after it was attacked by gau rakshaks has not been reopened despite a district and sessions court order. According to a Hindustan Times report, Hayat Rabbani, a hotel on Jaipur’s Kanti Chandra Road was laid to siege on March 19 based on suspicions that it was serving beef. Rabbani, along with two other hotel workers were booked under section 151 of the Criminal Procedure Code.However, lab reports confirmed that the meat in question was not beef, following which, the court had instructed the Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) to reopen the hotel within seven days on April 29. The JMC was also required to submit a compliance report to the court, but according to hotel owner Naeem Rabbani, the hotel has remained sealed. Municipal corporation officials told the Hindustan Times that they were unaware of such an order from the court, saying, “If there is any order, we will abide by whatever the honourable court has said”. Rabbani, however, claims that he had handed over the court order to the concerned JMC official himself and therefore, he said, the corporation must have a copy of the order.
Posters threatening muslims to leave village before 30/12/17 or else they themselves would be responsible for the consequences, were pasted on the walls of Gorakhpur, Yogi Adityanath's constituency. It also read that it was BJP's rule and the incidents happening in USA under Trump's rule would happen in the village also. The muslims lived in fear.
Posters threatening muslims to leave village before 30/12/17 or else they themselves would be responsible for the consequences, were pasted on the walls of Sheeshgarh, Barelliy. It also read that it was BJP's rule and the incidents happening in USA under Trump's rule would happen in the village also. The muslims lived in fear.
On March 7, 2015 in Barwani, Pas. Lalsingh was arrested near Julwania Police Station at 3:30pm on false allegations of conversion during a prayer meeting. The local villagers had opposed the prayer and had informed the Police. The Police then transferred him to Rajpur Police Station fearing that the mob would attack them. On the other hand, the Hindutva fundamentalists surrounded the Julwania Police Station to stop the Police to go to Rajpur to complete the formalities. All allegations were proved to be false and they were released the next day
Police arrested a 20-year-old man for vandalizing a mosque in Dadri. The man entered the mosque and threw the microphone meant for prayers on the floor and allegedly tried to ransack the place. He seemed to have been intoxicated, doctors confirmed. The police took control as the area has turned to be sensitive after the lynching of Md.Akhlaq in beef storing case.
On February 10, 2015 in Gudiyattam, Vellore, two persons were arrested for false allegations of promoting Christianity in the Gudiyattam Government Hospital. The police arrested Radha Krishnan (65) and H Anitha (39), who are cousins and residents of Melalathur. According to police officials, Anitha’s husband Henry Pula was a pastor in a church in Melalathur. He died 40 days ago due to a chronic disease. So, Anitha gave loaves of bread and Bibles to 60 patients in the government hospital as a form of ritual in Gudiyattam on Tuesday. A case was registered under section 447 (Punishment for criminal trespass) and 153 (A) (Promoting enmity between groups on grounds of religion and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) in Gudiyattam town police station
Mumbai: In good news for a Mankhurd-based Muslim man, his Hindu wife on Wednesday informed the Bombay High Court of her willingness to continue living with her husband and his family. This comes after the woman was allegedly kidnapped by her parents, who opposed the ‘inter-caste’ marriage. The woman, a native of Mangalore, was produced before the division bench of Justice Bhushan Gavai and Justice BP Colabawala, who were hearing the habeas corpus petition of her husband Iqbal Chaudhary. “After they got married, the wife’s family went to Iqbal’s house and threatened them; later, a group of men too barged into the house and made similar threats. While the couple were spending some time together in Vashi, the wife was kidnapped by some unknown persons, who Iqbal claimed were from her family,” said advocate Hasnen Qazi, who represents Iqbal in the court. Bombay High Court tells them to get marriage registered
Hoardings asking Rohingya and Bangladeshi Muslims to leave have come up in Jammu city. They encourage local residents to
Hindu students in Sahyadri college of arts and Sahyadri college of Science and Commerce protested against Muslim girls wearing Burkha and Hijab to college. The college management had to call off classes amidst the protest. Those who had staged protests against the wearing of burkha attended classes sporting saffron shawls. Police were deployed in college in heavy numbers.
The controversy over a section of students coming to class wearing burkha escalated at Sahyadri Arts and Commerce College and Sahyadri Science College — unit colleges of Kuvempu University in the city — on 3rd Feb, with noisy protests and cancellation of classes. The protesters claimed that wearing burkha was in violation of the “dress code” prescribed by the university earlier in the year. University authorities, meanwhile, said there was no uniform rule and students could choose what to wear. The protesters said if the girls are allowed to attend classes wearing burkha, they would come to the college wearing saffron shawls. There were chaotic scenes on campus with protesting students wearing saffron shawls and dancing and raising slogans.
On January 25 in Gyanpur, Bhadohi, a mob beat up Ps. Jomon Scaria and his wife Jaya at his house. They kicked his wife on the stomach. Tensions had prevailed in the area for the past three days, and the Pastor had called off the Sunday worship service after taking advice from the local police. In spite of taking precautions, the mob came to the Pastor's house and brutally beat him and his wife.
On January 16 in Tadur village located in the Mahabubnagar, Telangana, a Church was set on fire by assailants. The Parimala Beautiful Church was mainly a  temporary structure constructed of thatches, bamboo and tarps. After the members of the church met for prayers on the day from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m., the church was torched by unknown assailants. At about 8:30 p.m., a local bus driver was passing by the church and noticed smoke and flames were clearly visible coming from the building. Immediately, the bus driver informed the police and the locals about the fire at the church. Church members, police and a fire engine rushed to the church, but by then more than half of the building had been reduced to ashes. Almost everything inside the church was destroyed by the fire including carpets, instruments, and church literature like songbooks and Bibles. A First Information Report (FIR) was booked by the police and an investigation is now underway.
According to the police, Junaid (17), a resident of Mallur, and his friend Sinan (18), a resident of BC Road, were returning to their houses on the motorcycle after attending a marriage in Gurupura. At Kalpane near Kallige village, three persons came on a motorcycle and way laid them. Even as the three persons were attacking the two with knives, Junaid raised the accelerator of the motorcycle and sped away. The police said that Junaid has suffered an injury on this right hand, while Sinan has an injury on his neck. The victims have been admitted to a private hospital and their condition is said to be stable. The police said that the injuries were minor ones and the victims were out of danger. A search is on for the culprits.The District Crime Intelligence Bureau (DCIB) sleuths on arrested four persons allegedly involved in the stabbing. The police gave the names of the accused as Devadas (30), Prashanth (28), Satish (30)and Umesh (30).
Residents of Rajagopal Nagar in Herga village called up the Manipal police and complained about two persons whom they accused of religious conversion. The police arrived at the spot and took the duo Senata Peters Burpes (28) and Soumya (26) into custody. Upon inquiry it was learnt that they used to visit houses and indulge in proselytisation. Both were released later after obtaining a bond from them. Senata reportedly told the police that proselytisation was their fundamental right and they were not carrying out forcible conversions.
When an autorickshaw driver from Parpunja received a missed call on his mobile phone he thought it was from a customer. He called back the number. It happened to be a girl’s number. He talked to her and  went  to  her  house.  But  he  was  followed  by  another autorickshaw  driver  who  had  become suspicious  since  the  girl  belonged  to  a  different  religious  community.  As  soon  as  the  first autorickshaw driver reached the girl’s place the driver of the second one assaulted him and went and lodged a complaint with the police. However as there was no complaint from the girl the police took both  drivers  into  custody  and  released  them  shortly  afterwards  with  a  warning.  No  case  has  been registered
A vehicle transporting cattle at night from Kerijaddu in Kalthodu village to Ayanur in Shimoga district was intercepted by locals. The latter had assumed that the three cows and five calves inside were being taken for slaughtering. But as soon as the vehicle stopped both the driver and his assistant jumped and ran away. But after a while the driver returned with policemen from Baindur station. When the police asked the locals to file a complaint and none came forward they were told to get out. The police have revealed that the driver hailing from Shimoga had valid papers for purchasing and transporting the cattle.
Muhammad Said Arshad (17), resident of Puttur Hanumant Nagar (Udupi District), was returning home in his bike after attending the annual day function at the Kallianpur Milagres College. At around 5:30 p.m. when he was passing the Santhekatte bus stop, suddenly two bikes appeared and he was asked to stop. But when Arshad did not stop he was followed and finally intercepted somewhere close to Hanumant Nagar. He was asked about Abdus Samad and when Arshad said he didn’t know him he was assaulted by the group. Arshad was rescued by his uncle who saw the incident from his house nearby. Arshad has been admitted to the district government hospital. Acting on Arshad’s complaint police have arrested Dipak, Sujit and Sampath on December 1.
A large group comprising around 20 men arrived in vehicles at around 10 p.m. and attacked two bus drivers Imad (28) and Ashraf (35) with lethal weapons. The incident occurred at Talapady as the two drivers were going home after the last trip. The group has accused them of harassing the Hindu girls travelling in their bus. The Ullal police acted swiftly and managed to arrest five of the attackers. They are Dikshit, Mahesh, Sandesh, Ravish and Ravi. All of them are said to be residents of Kumpala and Talapady. The police have registered a case and investigations are in progress.
Faisal Pullani (earlier Aneesh Kumar), who worked as a driver in Saudi Arabia, was hacked to death after he converted to Islam. His family claimed that he had received threats from other family members over his conversion. The police arrested 12 people, including his brother-in-law K Vinod, a VHP member, in connection with the murder.
A hotel owner Mohammed Shakir alleged that Bajrang Dal activists, accompanied by the police, barged into his house and forcibly took away a calf he was rearing to the Moodbidri police station, accusing him of harbouring the animal to butcher it. He said that he was rearing the calf for the past eight months at his house. He had purchased it from someone in the village by paying Rs 2,000 to feed it leftover food from the hotel, which angered Bajrang Dal activists.
The conductor of a city bus operating between Mangaluru and Harekala reportedly sent an SMS to a girl belonging to another faith. Some youth came to know this and they went and started questioning the  conductor.  More  than  100  people  gathered  at  the  place  and  the  situation  became  tense.  The crowd dispersed when they saw the police arriving. The police managed to settle the issue, it is said.
A hotel owner in Mangalore alleged that a group of Bajrang Dal activists, accompanied by the police barged into his house at midnight and accused him for rearing a calf for slaughter, which they took away. Mohammed Shakir 42, owner of Bismillah Hotel at Beluvai, said he was accused of serving beef at his hotel.
Miscreants threw stones at a mosque at Basthipadpu in Ullal in the early hours today. Some window panes have been damaged. The scattered glass pieces were found inside the hall when the devotees came for early morning prayers. The Ullal police have registered a case based on a complaint by Ullal Central Committee. – Deccan Herald, (16.11.2016) Meanwhile Yathi alias Sharath Kumar (23) and Dhanush (23) were found to be carrying weapons in a bike at Thoduguli Cross in Konaje. The duo has been arrested by the police and a case has been registered. – Deccan Herald, 16.11.2016
Miscreants attacked and injured 10-year-old Razak at Kairangal Jallicross at 6 in the evening. Razak, a resident of Vidyanagara in Konaje was on his way to Thotalu madrassa. The two men who came on a bike attempted to stab the boy after pretending to seek some address. Razak who sustained injuries on his hand has been admitted to a hospital at Deralakatte.
Two men on a motorcycle allegedly stabbed two youths in Manjanady in Ullal police station limits on Saturday. The incident comes two days after an RSS activist was assaulted in Kuttar. The police gave the names of the injured as Sameer (20) and Nawaz (26) of Ansar Nagar in Manjanady. According to reports reaching here, two men, wearing helmets, stopped Sameer in the guise of asking address and reportedly stabbed him around 8.30 p.m. Around 20 minutes later, Nawaz, who was walking towards his house, was also stabbed reportedly by the same men. The two have been admitted to a private hospital. The Ullal police are on the lookout for attackers. Prohibitory orders have been imposed in Ullal and Konaje police station limits.
Members of a hindutva group got a tip-off from someone about a Muslim boy and Hindu girl travelling together on a bus bound for Bengaluru. They immediately followed the bus and made an attempt to stop it at Farangipet but were unsuccessful. But when the bus reached B.C.Road junction a large crowd that had gathered there managed to intercept the bus. The activists boarded the bus and upon checking found that the boy and girl were seated separately. When the police got the information they rushed to the spot and escorted the bus to the station. As soon as they discovered that there was no basis to the rumour about the couple the activists were given a warning and the bus was allowed to go with police escort.
Police denied Muslim men access to Mosque for offering Namaz. It has been reported that there was a fight between people from two political parties near the mosque due to which the Police had asked the men to vacate the mosque and to not offer namaz there anymore. But after the conflict was resolved and everything had come back to normal, the police, influenced by some mischievous and antisocial elements, again barred the people from offering namaz in the mosque.
Muhamad Haneef (35), a resident of Gandhinagar in Sullia was travelling in a KSRTC bus heading from Mangaluru to Mysuru. At Kalllugundi a group of people boarded the bus and took Haneef to task for sitting next to a woman from a different community. After confirming that the two were not related the group got down from the bus. When the bus reached Madikeri bus-stand at about 10 p.m., another group got into the bus and hurled abuses at Haneef and took the two to the Madikeri policestation. The police sent Haneef and the woman away when they learnt that there was no relationship between them. Haneef has filed a complaint with the Sullia police against Sudha, an auto driver and a representative of Dinu hotel and others. The police have registered a case under IPC sections 341,143, 298, and 504.
A student of final year BCA studying at the Bhandarkars College was assaulted by an Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) activist for allegedly speaking to a girl student of the same college in Kundapur town in Udupi district. The girl student belonging to another faith of the same college had asked the victim, Akeeph, how he did his examinations. At this, Shashikanth, a student of the same college and an ABVP activist, who was nearby, assaulted Akeeph. The incident has been captured on the CCTV camera. After the assault, Shashikanth fled from the spot. Akeeph was later admitted to the Government Hospital in Kundapur. Naseer Hussain, Kundapur Sub-Inspector, told The Hindu that Shashikanth was known for creating nuisance in the college. A complaint has been registered at the Kundapur police station, Mr. Hussain added.
Bajrang Dal and Shiv Sena workers allegedly attacked a group of Banjara tribals at Relmagra in Rajsamand district of Rajasthan late on Monday night when they were returning to their village with half-a-dozen bulls purchased in a cattle fair. Three of the tribals were seriously injured in the attack.
On the night of October 3, Jharkhand police swept down on Dighari village in Jamatara district, detaining 22-year-old Minhaz Ansari, and two of his friends, Shahban and Fahim. They were thrashed by sub-inspector Harish Pathak and five or six other police personnel. Minhaj was beaten separately by the police which leads to his death according to co-accused Shahban.    CAH report says that Vishwa Hindu Parishad’s (VHP) district head alleged that the deceased victim uploaded photo of himself with a calf and later with beef on social networking app WhatsApp.
The Ganga Institute of Technology and Management administration expelled five students and imposed a fine of Rs 4,000 each on them for thrashing 3 Kashmiri students at the hostel premises. The 3 were allegedly beaten with logs and sticks by fellow students, hostel staff and security guards over some argument, which triggered a protest on the campus.
Alleging that some youths in Sullia have been forcibly converted to Islam, the Dakshina Kannadadistrict unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) sought action against such forces indulging inconversion. Concerns about forcible conversion were expressed following the circulation in social media platforms of an image of a certificate issued by a Kerala-based organisation stating that 24- year-old Sanjeev Gowda of Mandekolu village had adopted Islam. There was also reports of another youth from Sullia running away from his house after his father warned him against doing namaz in the house. Superintendent of Police Bhushan Gulabrao Borase told The Hindu that so far there have been no complaint of forcible conversion from any youth. Dikshit Gowda who had left home on September 8 after his father warned him against doing namaz in the house and about whom there were rumours of having got himself converted to Islam, returned home on September 23. He has refuted the news about his conversion and clarified that he had gone away to Calicut after his father had hit him. Sathisha [Acharya] of Mandekolu came to the Sullia police station and gave a statement refuting various allegations about him. He said that the hindutva organizations have spread false news that he had got himself converted to Islam. He stated that he had neither become a Muslim nor had any intention of doing so.
Upon receipt of a complaint from activists of Bajrang Dal, the policemen from Kundapur station took two women into custody from a house near the Hindu cremation ground at Koteshwara. The activists had complained that the women belonging to Yehova’s Witnesses were indulging in proselytisation in the area. The police later said that since there was no written complaint the women were released after giving them a warning.
Ali Rukman was a principal of madarssa and his son and son-in-law were beaten up by the cow vigilantes while carrying out buffalo remains from the previous day's Eid-ul-Zuha sacrifice. A mob started avenging the attack, so Rukman told them that it was his family matter and he will take care of it. He prevented a riot to take place. He registered a case with the police.
After the Eid in Alwar Police raid on the Revada Bas where is a Meo Muslim settlements on the suspicion of cow slaughtering and arrested 12 peoples and searching for 12 more peoples.  According to the villagers, the Right-wing Hindutva members with police came to the village and looted and destroyed their properties and broken all the things inside the home and behave badly with women's.  According to the police, they recovered 36 cattle dead and save 6 cows during the raid. Most villagers said that killing 36 cows did not make much sense for a village that has only around 300 people. “Even if one of them killed a cow, he would do it discreetly,” said Sameer Khan, an aspiring cricketer from Ramgarh.
Nazir Ahmed and his sons were allegedly attacked and harassed by more than 20 cow vigilantes who entered their house over suspicion of cow slaughter. The family had slaughtered two oxen for Eid celebrations.  A neighbour alerted a local group of gau rakshaks under the impression that the family was slaughtering a cow. “The vigilantes stormed their house and damaged their car,” said Kaleemullah, of the Karnataka Komu Souharda Vedik
The two men were beaten a day after Eid in outer Delhi’s Kirari village on Wednesday when they were on their way to dump the remains of animals, sacrificed in their madrasa in Outer Delhi on Wednesday. The victims Hafiz Abdul Khalid, 25, and Ali Hassan, 35, are residents of Prem Nagar-2 of outer district. Family members said they were carrying the remains of the buffaloes sacrificed on behalf of over 100 people. DCP (Outer), Vikramjit Singh, said that four men have been arrested. Singh said that on Wednesday, locals gathered on being informed that animal meat was being carried. “They asked them to stop and explain the meat, which triggered a fight. Other locals also joined in and thrashed them. We have booked all of them for attempt to murder and are on lookout for others.”
A mob was gathered in Jharkhand when a few pieces of cow meat(allegedly) was found on the road. The mob burnt a few tyres but they had to disperse quickly after the police came.
A 25-year-old man, Mohammed Ayyub Mev who was allegedly thrashed by cow vigilantes on September 13, died at a hospital in Ahmedabad on Friday, police said. Mohammad Ayyub Mev was admitted to V S Hospital after he was beaten up by unidentified persons on S G Highway on the night of September 13 after his car met with an accident. A calf which he was allegedly carrying in the car died in the mishap. Ayyub’s brother Imran alleged that he was beaten up on the suspicion that he was transporting cows for slaughter.
P A Basheer, a 36-year-old native of Kondageri village in Madikeri district, was assaulted by a group of 20 cow vigilantes while he was returning with two oxen from Koggodu village, 12 km away from his village. They alleged that he had stolen the cattle. Basheer said it was through a broker that he had finalised the deal to purchase two oxen for Rs 17,500. Basheer's friend, Salaam, who was travelling with him, managed to escape.
The victim has been identified as Rafiq Hussain. The gang allegedly demanded extortion money from Hussain, a vegetable vendor, after he bought a house for Rs 25 lakh in his area. Hussain had refused to pay them.  The police said that they were able to identify the suspects based on the CCTV footage and have detained few people for questioning in the incident. 'We have identified most of them on the basis of the CCTV footage and will track them down,' said senior police officer Dipankar Trivedi.
Cow vigilantes attacked two Muslim youths and a pickup van driver while they were transporting calves. Police said that around 30 youths from Badangpet intercepted the vehicle and after dumping the calves near Pedda Cheruvu, beat up the driver and the two youths who were in the vehicle.  Police identified the youths as members of the Jai Sriram Youth Ganesh Association and Siddi Vinayaka Hills Youth Association from Badangpet village. Police arrested Y. Sunil, 23, working at a jewellery store in Punjagutta, B. Sai Chaintanyaraju, 24, and A. Venugopal, 23, both private sector employees and A. Manoj, 23, an electrician. Seven others who have been identified are absconding. The others have not been identified. The arrested persons were remanded.
On getting information about a pick-up vehicle transporting cattle from Eliyarpadav, activists of Hindutva organizations followed in a motorcycle and intercepted it at Bhatnagar in Thokkottu. They found two bulls in the vehicle. But the three persons in the pick-up managed to escape. The Ullal police have taken possession of the vehicle along with the cattle and are on the look-out for the accused.
Mustafa Qureshi a cattle trader is harassed by the Gau rakshas and police. They captured their cattle and send to the cow shelters and police also want Rs. 250 per cow for giving the cows shelter and registered a case against him for carrying cattle more than permitted. according to the victims he purchased 72 cattle which were caught by gau rakshaks and police in a set of 44 and 28. He purchased cattle for slaughter them because Bakir-eid is near. But, now he suffers a loss after the strict order from police that there is no interference of cow vigilantes were Accepted.
A 28-year-old Kashmiri man, Mudasir Rasool, was allegedly beaten up by 3 men in Noida, after he had an argument with one of them. He claimed that he dialled three helplines, none of which helped him. Rasool said police “arrested one out of the three attackers”, but kept him “waiting at the police station for almost four hours.” “One police officer told me I must have been partly responsible for the incident and he knew what Kashmiris are like,” said Rasool.
June 6 2016 Unidentified miscreants damaged the statue of St. Anthony placed at the compound entrance of the St. Anthony’s Chapel at Kandlur village near Kundapur, about 50 km from Udupi. According to the police, the damage to the 1.5-ft.-long statue took place between 11 p.m. on Sunday and 6.30 a.m. on Monday.
when a boy appealed to VC because he was banned for having a beard. The Calicut university VC lifted the ban. but the other students boycotted the class protesting the lifting of the ban.
The Manikpur police station registered cases against 11 members who protested  — including Jeetendra Jain, secretary of the Happy Jeevan Society, Sai Nagar, Vasai (W),  under sections 298 and 295 A of the IPC.  On September 4, the accused had signed a resolution raising objections to the decision of Kantaben Patel, 55, to sell her flat to Vikarahmed Khan, 35, a glass merchant from Vasai. Khan had even also given Patel Rs1 lakh as token amount. But due to the delay in the issuance of an NOC from Jain, the sale was not successful. The secretary had openly written to Patel asking her to sell the flat to all but a Muslim “in the interest of the members of the society”, as the 16-storey building was opposed to having a non-vegetarian family. Though there were two Muslim families already residing in the 36-year-old society. These Muslim families were not in town when the resolution was adopted as Patel said. Then Patel and her son Jignesh, 32, had approached the sub-registrar of societies, Vasai, for justice as the 710 sqft first floor flat is lying unsold due to the non-issuance of the NOC from Jain. The deal was settled at Rs48 lakh for the flat. Jain even defended the denial of the NOC, stated that they do not want another Muslim family in society. The buyer had taken loans from banks to purchase the flat. Jain also objected to the smell emanating from the two Muslim families, who cook non-vegetarian food almost every day. Khan also said that he had given a token of Rs 1 lakh to the Patels a couple of days ago and wanted a no-objection certificate (NOC) from the society to apply for a loan. “I currently live in a one-room kitchen and wanted a spacious house. This new house would have been closer to my children’s school. It’s also walking distance from the local railway station.” Police said all the accused have claimed they “objected together” as they did not want “anymore non-vegetarian” food to be cooked in society
The Srinivas College of Pharmacy had barred first year B.Pharm students from wearing headscarves inside the classroom, library, office room, and exam hall. It also restricted students from wearing jeans and t-shirt. The first-year students and parents had signed a declaration at the time of admission. Principal R. Shabaraya said students from second to fourth year B.Pharm were allowed to wear headscarves as the condition was not laid down at the time of their admission. Students are free to wear hijab during lunch hours and other free times on the campus. However after a meeting with activists the college authorities said there will not be any objection to students entering classes with hijab and a committee will re-look the code of conduct. It may be recalled that a year ago, there were protests at a degree college in Sullia after a teacher asked Muslim girls to remove their headscarves during the annual photo session.
The 20-year-old woman and her 14-year-old cousin were sexually assaulted by several men in their home in Mewat on the August 24. Their uncle and aunt were tied up and then beaten to death. The Haryana police had arrested four men in their 30s from the village and initially booked them for rape and trespass. Murder charges were added only when the locals protested. The CBI 29 JAN filed a chargesheet against four accused in the Mewat double murder and gang-rape case. The chargesheet was filed in the special CBI court in Panchkula against Dharmu and Munna, residents of Gurugram district, Lambu of Rewari district and Jai Bhagwan of Jhajjar district. 'Rapists Asked If I Eat Beef,' Alleges Haryana Woman said the victim.
Ilyas Shaikh, a tempo driver, was beaten by a group of 10 alleged cow vigilantes after the latter found cow skin and bones in the tempo. He was on a municipal contract to carry animal remains. The police rescued him and took him to a hospital, where he was found to have suffered fractures in both arms. A case of rioting was later lodged against the cow vigilantes.
In Jiroli village, Aligarh Bajrang Dal members assaulted four thieves on the suspicion of cow smuggling. According to the Police, Bajrang Dal members told to the thieves to stop the matador but they were not listening then they create an alert in the area. On highway when thieves saw mob they stop and ran away from Mob. But, they were caught and assaulted by Cow Vigilantes before handed to the police.
In Garhi Mukeem Khan area community clash occurs when a Muslim girl said a Hindu boy stalking her. After the news, the people of both the community attack on each other with country-made knives and pistol. Police arrested a boy and others who involved in the violence. In this clash 6 people also injured.
Cow Vigilantes attacked cattle traders in Jirauli Gaon of Aligarh, accusing them to be cattle thieves. They were transporting buffaloes when the Gau Rakshaks stopped them and pulled them out of their truck and started thrashing them brutally.
Two residents of UP who were transporting cows were beaten by a mob and their vehicles were set on fire in Panipat village. Later the case was registered and the perpetrators were arrested.
Locals and Hindutva activists attacked Nagabhushan Hegde 40, on suspicion of transporting cattle illegally, near Kumta, Karnataka. Hegde's vehicle was stopped near a temple, and he was confronted and beaten up by the mob. They then handed him over to the police, who registered a case against him.
A Muslim boy in Muzaffarnagar killed by the Uncle of Hindu girl when they saw them in a comfortable position on the girl house. According, to the family of that boy they call him and then kill him at their home. The boy and a girl are in love and after the incident police also arrested the 2 persons. After the news spread then there is a communal tension in the region. And, there is another story according to which he killed because of some financial clash also occurred between Praveen and Nazim.
After the objectionable video gone viral in Chappra Bihar communal clash occur between two communities. Peoples attack on the religious sites, burns shops, vehicles and many more. Police register the FIR against the 100 peoples and also register the case on those who increase the tension. The Right-wing Hindutva groups like Bajrang Dal, ABVP etc also encourage and take participate in the clashes.
Mob attacked two bike riders over suspicion of cow smuggling in Mohammadpur Kalan of Sikandrabad, UP.  A few villagers had spotted some men speeding away with two cows for slaughter. When the villagers gathered, those men escaped away and the mob attacked two another men who had later come to the place of incident and took them to the Police.
Mob atttacked the house of Muslim family over suspicion of cow slaughter. The mob that had gathered even tried to set the house on fire but Zeeshan managed to escape from the house along with his wife and two cousins. The police arrested Zeshan Qureshi. No action has been taken against the protesters who allegedly tried to set Zeeshan’s house on fire.
Police captured 3 cows from a Muslim family in Puranpur Village of Pilibhit District, UP. The police alleged that the cows were being raised for slaughter whereas the cow-owners said that the cows were reared for milk and not for slaughter. The police impounded the cows saying that they would release the cows if it was satisfactorily found after investigation that the cows were kept only for milk and not for meat.
A group of about 40 persons, said to be Sri Rama Sena activists, “raided” a government-aided higher primary school run by a religious minority institution on the outskirts of Mangaluru on July 30 morning, questioning why Arabic was being taught. “The group, along with a few media persons, barged into the classrooms on Saturday morning and snatched notebooks from the students. The members, claiming to be activists of Sri Rama Sene, objected to Arabic being taught in the classroom,” said Melwyn Braggs, headmaster of St. Thomas Aided Higher Primary School, Bondantila, near Neermarga here. The activists were said to have been acting on complaints from parents that their children were being “forcibly” taught Urdu and Arabic on Saturdays between 9 a.m. and 10 a.m. One of the Sena leaders, Anand Shetty, said the school cannot forcibly teach languages that are not part of the curriculum. However, Mr. Braggs told The Hindu that they had been teaching German, French and Arabic to students for the last four years. This year, parents had, during the parent-teacher meeting, said they did not want French and German but wanted Arabic and karate classes to continue, he said. While karate is taught on Friday, Arabic classes are held on Saturday, and the school management had made arrangements for teachers to teach these subjects. “Attendance to these classes was purely voluntary,” Mr. Braggs said, adding that only about 40 of the 59 students of classes 6 and 7 were attending the Arabic class. He said the activists could have talked to him instead of barging into the classroom. Some of the activists were old students of the school, Mr. Braggs said. Mr. Anand Shetty later told The Hindu that it was not a raid, but an act to “catch the school administration red-handed”. Defending the action, he said: “Had we informed the higher officials, the school would have dismissed the complaint,” he said. The headmaster has filed a complaint with Mangaluru Rural Police. Assistant Commissioner of Police (South) N.S. Shruthi visited the school and gathered information from the management. City Police Commissioner M. Chandra Sekhar said they have registered cases of trespass and rioting against the activists.
Two innocent women were badly beaten by radical Hindu groups in India for allegedly carrying beef to sell. They were beaten at Mandsaur railway station by Hindu Dal activists. Shameem Akhtar Hussain, 35, and Salma Ismail Mewati.They were waiting for their train, then the group of activists came here for beating and abusing. There are three cases against Shameem and four cases against Salma, and the women had served one month in jail, said by in-charge of Kotwali police station.
Locals handed over to the police an inter-religious couple found roaming around in B.C.Road. The boy, Syed Salman is a student of an engineering college in Mudigere, Chikmagalur district. The girl is studying in a private PU college in Mangaluru. Both hail from Mudigere. The girl had gone home on July 23 and while returning Salman had accompanied her. Some local persons in B.C.Road  who noticed the couple took them to the police station alleging it to be a case of ‘love jihad’. The police called the parents and after a warning, released the couple. – Prajavani, 28th.  Hindutva organizations have alleged that it is a case of ‘love jihad’. – Karavali Ale, 28th.
Inter-religious couple were found roaming around B.C. road and taken to police station
Muslims in Sarai Kale Khan say that they don't feel safe living in the area and want to sell their homes. They say that the police harassed them and label them as rioters.
20-25 ABVP members allegedly thrashed a 25-year-old research student in Hyderabad after mistaking him to be a Kashmiri. The ABVP activists mistook Amol Singh for his senior Bilal, a Kashmiri and a former student of the University of Hyderabad, and attacked him after a protest against alleged police atrocities in Kashmir.
In Bhopal, Kashmiri doctoral student Umar Rashid was allegedly attacked by two people inside the campus of the Barakatullah University after he told them he hailed from Kashmir’s Pampore. Rashid said: “The university administration is trying to shield students, who attacked me. There was a witness, who is from Bhopal. There was a mark on my body. The BU administration is ignoring the issue.”
Haram meat was thrown twice in Jama Masjid of  Bahrauli Village in Nichlaul district outraged the people. Maulanas, however, played a major role in maintaining peace and order by requesting people to keep their anger in control. FIR was lodged and the police set up a Detective team which worked to find out the culprits. The police found through investigation that this was work of Jitender Yadav, Nagender Yadav, and Angad Singh. The police arrested Angad Harijan, however the other two managed to escape. The accused claims that this was done in order to remove the former S.O V.P.Singh from his designation.
Bajrang Dal members of VHP attacked the driver of a truck carrying bones in Hasanpur Chungi of Saharanpur District. The police did not take any action against the VHP members. It was not confirmed that the bones found were bones of which animal.
Addressing a press conference organized by the Hindu Janajagruti Samiti here, Telangana BJP legislator T. Raja Singh said that if beef is not banned in his state then both the TRS government and the
Upon receiving information about illegal transportation of cattle from Halkal near Kollur to Golihole, local youth intercepted the vehicle at Ellur on the Kollur-Baindor Highway and informed the police. The Baindoor police arrived, took the accused into custody and brought the situation to normal.
Unidentified persons abused and assaulted Habib Rehman (18) with a glass bottle as he was going home after saying prayers at a mosque. The incident took place at night near a wine shop in Lower Car Street. Habib who got injured had lodged a complaint at the Bunder police station. The police have arrested Shishir Poojary (23), Dhanraj (22), Sandesh Kumar (20) and a juvenile in this connection on 28 June.
Activists of Hindutva organizations from Kokkada intercepted a vehicle near Pattur and found four cattle inside the pick-up. While the driver of the vehicle escaped, his assistant was caught. The activists immediately informed the police. The latter came to the spot and took the man and the vehicle into custody. Meanwhile hundreds of activists gathered and when they learnt that the cattle were being transported with false papers they were enraged. Arrival of additional policemen from Dharmasthala and Belthangady prevented any untoward incident from happening. The Dharmasthala police have registered a case and are investigating.
Two men who had reportedly purchased a cow and calf and were taking them were attacked by a group at Nadtikallu near Venur. When Zainuddin, a relative of one of the victims questioned the attackers they came near his house. Abdul Samad intervened and tried to pacify the crowd but both of them were assaulted by the group. Some of the victims and also the attackers have been admitted to hospitals. Both sides have lodged complaints against one another at the Venur police station.
In a complaint filed with the Bajpe police, Bharat has accused that while he and other Hindu persons were having a meeting at around 8:30 p.m. at Narayanaguuru Nagar in Porkody a group of Muslim men arrived and raised objections. The group attacked them and called more men to the spot. They entered houses and threatened kill the women, Bharat said. Bharat, Prashant and Yatish suffered injuries and have been admitted to Wenlock hospital. Meanwhile the other group to has lodged a complaint that they were assaulted by Bharat, Prashant and others. Top police officials visited the place and reviewed the situation. Reportedly old enmity is the reason behind the attacks.
A team of Gau Rakshak Dal apparently caught trucks carrying beef. They caught Rizwan and Mukhitihar too from the site.The Dal wanted to teach them a lesson.They first thrashed the duo badly and then made them swallow cowdung with the help of water.The ordeal did not end there.The group then took them to the Faridabad Police. The police arrested the two on charges of cow slaughter. Ironically but not surprisingly, no action was taken against the Gau Rakshak Dal.
Khalander (24), an autorickshaw driver in Savanur has lodged a complaint with the police saying he and Mohammed Asif were pulled out of his autorickshaw and attacked with swords and iron rods by Monappa Gowda, Darnappa Gowda, Poani Gowda and their sons Keshava, Kushalappa and Babu Gowda. According to Khalander, Monappa Gowda had engaged the autorickshaw to take him to his house but after getting there he with others attacked both of them. Asif with serious injuries is being treated at a hospital in Mangaluru. Khalander has been admitted to a private hospital in Puttur. The police are reported to have taken several persons into custody. Meanwhile, Poovani Gowda’s wife has made a counter complaint accusing Asif and Khalander of having tried to molest her and another woman.
A mini truck coming from Badaun, which was carrying bovines, (they were being illegaly trafficked) in order to avoid a police check point on a highway took a detour, and in that it over turned and fell into a nullah. It killed 11 cows and some of them survived. Police arrested 1 out of the 4 people in the truck as three of them had fled away. However, the angry mob wanted the police to hand that person to them. As police tried the arrested person to take him to the police station, the car was damaged by the angry mob. FIR has been registered against the 4 people who were illegally trafficking bovines.
Munna (45), a driver working with a fish dealer of Sakleshpur and his son Taslim were on their way to Mangaluru for purchasing fish. At Gadiyar near Bantwal their vehicle happened to hit the one in front.Though it was a mild hit they were physically pulled out of their vehicle and assaulted with steel rods and clubs. The attackers numbering five were members of some Sangh Parivar outfit. The attack which began at midnight went on for about three hours. In the end, when they tried to burn the victims with petrol the latter were rescued by members of the public. Munna was given first aid at a local hospital and has now been admitted to a hospital at Sakleshpur. After a lot of wrangling about jurisdiction finally the Vittal police booked a case at 10 p.m. on 4.6.2016. – Vartha Bharati, 5th 6 2016
A dispute over Rs.100 between 2 people from different communities turned into communal violence in Rampur District of UP.  According to the reports, there was an altercation between Anwaar Salmaani and Chotu Kumar over the payment of Rs.100 following which both men called their supporters and the matter turned ugly. Both the sides fired gunshots, pelted stones and burnt 5 motorbikes. Houses and Shops in the Purana Ganj area were set on fire and three persons were injured. RAF had to be deployed in the area along with the police to pacify the situation. Police have arrested one RSS activist and registered an FIR against people from both communities.
Police arrested 7 victims assaulted by a cow vigilante mob for allegedly smuggling calves. Police also arrested one and booked six of an angry mob of cow protection activists for the assault.
The clash occurred when few people of the MLA forcefully evacuate the scrap dealer shop who belongs to the minority community and the member of minority community throw stones on the MLA house and burn the vehicles. After that the police controlled the area by using lathi and Bullet guns. During the clash 32 peoples were injured including 12 policemen.
A Muslim man--suspected to be a cattle smuggler--was killed in a shootout between cattle smugglers and cow vigilantes. The smugglers were in a mini truck, which was also carrying at least half a dozen cows.The two groups exchanged fire.Later in the day, the police recovered the bullet ridden body of a man, aged around 30 years.
The report—which was published in March 2016—is about how the Ministry of Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy (AYUSH) had a bias of hiring candidates belonging to only certain castes. It was picked up by mainstream media channels and newspapers at the time. It’s this report that snowballed into a three-year-long battle between the Delhi Police, Khan and his publication. It’s a battle that involves an allegedly forged complaint letter, intimidation techniques, the paradoxical arrest of a reporter and the purposefully delayed proof that was directed to be furnished by higher authorities—all of which culminated into The Milli Gazette shutting shop at the end of 2016.
A pick-up vehicle coming from Baruva near Amblamogaru and going towards Thokkottu was intercepted by activists of Bajrang Dal near the juvenile home at Kuttar. The vehicle was found to be carrying two bulls. The driver Siddiq along with the vehicle was later handed over to the Ullal police.
Md. Jalees, a student who recently finished his MA in Arabic at the English and Foreign Languages University (EFLU) was barred from Ph.D. examination as there was a police case registered against him for allegedly conducting a beef festival and consuming beef in the university. Md Jalees had thus far not received any information about the complaint registered against him.
3 people thrashed Waseem, 20, in Sohna alleging he was carrying beef, a fourth recorded beating, others threatened victim with a gun. Later, vigilantes posed for photographs with the “catch”. FIR against Waseem; no case against the vigilantes.
A case of bike accident turned into an issue of communal violence in Miranpur. A motorcyclist(Nizam) belonging to one community collided with a person (Manoj) belonging to another community following a quarrel between the two which gradually led to the physical fight. It is alleged that the motorcyclist was beaten by 6-7 people of the other group following which there were attacks from both the sides using stones and sticks. 12 people were injured and had to be taken to the hospital. As the two groups grew violent, police had to be called. In the process of restoring order, Sub-inspector Vikram Bhati got injured along with 10 other policemen. The police have registered a case on 300 people out of which 63 are named and rest unknown.
Safwan and Rashid, students of a local college were arrested allegedly for circulating pro-Pakistan slogans during the T20 cricket match between India and Pakistan. The arrests were made by local police based on complaints received by them. Both accused were later released on bail. They have been warned not to repeat such acts. A written undertaking to this effect was obtained from them.
When an old woman came to perform pooja at a well which was situated in the mosque area where the police had restricted people from performing any ritual at the well, the situation slowly led to communal violence. A young man who had come along with her threatened to create violence when some Muslim Boys had asked the old woman not to perform pooja at the well. Hearing this noise, the police reached the spot and misbehaved with the Muslim Boys. During all this, people gathered near the tea stall of the mosque. They created violence and started throwing things outside, shouting slogans asking them to return to Pakistan. People from other community too gathered at the place but before any more violence could take place, the DM Rakesh Singh reached the place of the incident with SP Sadhna Goswamy and PAC and the situation was controlled.
Police arrested two men in suspicion of beef which led to protests by the Qureshi community inside the police station. The arrests also led to chaos among the meat sellers. Police lathi charged the Qureshi Community members who were protesting against the arrests. The meat recovered by the police was found to be buffalo meat in the forensic report.
Unidentified assailants attacked the Pastor in the Church and his pregnant wife and set their belongings on fire. It was alleged that the police tried to suppress the matter but later registered FIR against unknown perpetrators. The police had been investigating the case and were trying to find the accused. It is alleged that the assailants had come with dangerous weapons and petrol. It is also alleged that they tried to burn the Pastor and his wife alive.
Jamod village in Buldhana district of Maharashtra came under communal tension when members of two communities clashed after one community objected to raising of slogans on Ram Navami celebration in an area that was observing funeral proceedings. After this the situation turned violent and both communities stone pelted on each other. Shops, public property, and prayer mats were set to fire and the communities caused damage to each other's place of worship. The police had to impose curfew at the place for around two days.
During the celebration of Ram Navui in Hazaribagh Jharkhand, the clash is occurred between two communities due to the objectionable audio during the celebration. Curfew is imposed by the police in the area and, according to the news given by the police three peoples were killed in the clash.
Violent clashes erupted between members of two communities in Siwandih suburb of Bokaro steel city when a Ram Navami procession was stopped and pelted with stones. Communal violence and conflagration also broke out in Hazaribagh district, due to which several houses, shops vehicles were burnt and several people injured. The Police had to lathi-charge and fire tear gas in order to control the mob. Later, curfew had to be imposed in 4 police station areas of Bokaro to restore peace and harmony. The Police arrested 25 people from both the communities for stone pelting and arson.
A couple from Udupi belonging to different faiths was set upon by members of Bajrang Dal at the Forum Fiza Mall at Pandeshwar
Timely intervention of the police prevented escalation of an issue at a degree college in Sullia on March 31. The issue was relating to a teacher reportedly asking five girls of a community to remove their headscarf during a photo session at the college on March 30. The college photographed groups of students, including some with their headscarf, on that day as being done annually.The sessions went on smoothly. The issue cropped up only when taking the photograph of student volunteers of the Indian Red Cross unit in the college.Sources said that a teacher insisted that five women studentvolunteers with headscarf to remove them stating that they would look better. But the five students objected to it and said that headscarf was not an issue in the earlier group photo sessions and they refused to be photographed.Members of Campus Front of India who learnt about this staged a dharna in front of the college on March 31.The police, who intervened, held a meeting and resolved that no student would be asked to remove their headscarf against their will.The police said that the lecturer told the meeting that she would never ask students to remove their headscarf. The protesters then ended their dharna. Asked about the issue, Giridhar Gowda, Principal, Nehru Memorial College, said: “It is an internal matter of the college. Some outsiders questioned it. The issue has been resolved.” He refused to elaborate on the issue.
Three students from Begampur, Delhi were assaulted by the Mob because they refused to chant
The Hindu Majority of the Chak Fazli village of the Vaishali District of Bihar forcefully constructed a hut and installed a Hanuman Idol inside a mosque. When the Muslim Minority protested, the majority asked them to leave threatening that they would do anything they wanted to do. The place had been a madrasa and a mosque for more than 40 years. In the survey of 1960, the land was transferred to the Bihar Government with help from the Hindu Majority community. Later during the correction, it was again registered as land for a mosque. The problem began when Rajeshwar Rai and Dineshwar Rai illegally occupied a part of the land with the help of some mischievous elements. The Muslim Minority had complained to the police and even the Cheif Minister several times but no action was taken. When the police were inquired about this, the officials put the blame on each other.
A dispute about mobile phone number led to a free-for-all between two groups of students belonging to different religious communities at the Government First Grade College at Jidekal. Hanifuddin and Siddique with serious wounds have been admitted to the local government hospital. Srishaila and Amar are receiving treatment at a private hospital. Puttur police are investigating.
Mustain Abbas, 27, was allegedly killed and his 4 companions attacked by members of a cow vigilante group when he was on his way home after buying cattle in Kurukshetra, Haryana. Family members allege that the police at Shahbad and Peepli stations did not help. When Abbas and his companions were on their way back to the village, they saw that a police vehicle and 10-12 armed men had blocked the Shahbad-Delhi road with tractors. They realised that the men were Gau Raksha Dal members, but before the driver could reverse the Mahindra pick-up, the men had fired bullets and burst the car’s tyres. Abbas and his friends tried to flee. He was injured while running, but everyone else managed to escape. The police, according to the family, did not pay much heed to their complaint. Abbas’s father Tahir Hasan even said the police officer at Peepli police station told him to forget the case before he and his other family members also vanish. A similar threat was made at Shahbad police station. After dealing with a completely unhelpful police, the family moved the Punjab and Haryana high court on March 16. The high court ordered the immediate transfer of the Kurukshetra district magistrate, superintendent of police, deputy superintendent of police and station house officer of the Shahbad police station “to a far-off place with inconsequential posting(s)”. The court also transferred the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on May 9. The state government’s appeal to stay the CBI probe was rejected by the Supreme Court, but the transfer of the officials was put on hold. Hasan alleges his son was not killed immediately but rather abducted and then tortured for a month. “He had torture marks all over his body. He had sword wounds. Even his clothes were not the same. They did not even give him a chance to say anything. Even if he was carrying a buffalo, for instance, should they not have handed him over to the police instead of killing him mercilessly?” he said.  CBI registered a fresh FIR on May 23, 2016. Also, conducted the postmortem again. CBI undertook polygraph tests, mobile tracing etc. on the accused. But overtime, CBI's attitude has changed. They are now harassing the relatives of the victim in the name of investigation – repeatedly calling them to Chandigarh. (CAH Report, 2017)
During the Holi celebration in Azamgarh, few drunken men throw color on Muslim women's after which the male members of the Muslim community and a group of peoples from another community clashed with each other and in the clash five peoples were injured and member of Hindu community blocked the road. Police also report two case one against the drunken boys for their bad behavior and against Muslim community members for Attack.
An imam from Muzaffarnagar district is beaten up by a jat community member in a village in Shamli district. According to the victim he was abused by the fellow passenger's and after then six of them start beating him and then driver stop the bus and stop those people who assaulted Imam. When the bus reached the Muzzafarnagar they call Muslim who asked from driver and conductor about the persons. And, FIR is registered against those who beat and insult Imam.
A Muslim woman, aged 35 and said to be from Alankaru went to the Puttur taluk office along with a Hindu youth she knew. Reportedly the youth was familiar with the procedures involved in the office. After her job was done both had a glass of fruit juice before boarding a bus for Uppinangady. But in the meanwhile a group of Muslim boys who had seen the two together were preparing for doing a bit of moral policing. They were ready to attack the youth as he got down from the bus. But two Muslim men Navaz Kempi and Chowruddin, who got wind of this, managed to prevent the attack by prevailing upon the youth not to go ahead with their plan which could disturb the peace in an already communally sensitive place like Uppinangady.
Mazlum Ansari, 32, and Imteyaz Khan, 13, were heading to an animal fair to sell their cattle when they were allegedly lynched and hanged from a tree by a mob in Balumath on 17 March 2016. The area has a history of disputes between Hindus and Muslims over cattle trade and eating beef. All arrested accused have been granted bail by Jharkhand HC. Police is reluctant to associate the attack to right wing hindutva organisations even when it is well know that accused persons are part of such groups.   Family has refused to accept the meager amount of Rs.1 lakh offered by the Jharkhand chief minister, as they lost the breadwinners of the family. They are demanding a government job in order to sustain the family, and pursuing legal justice.
Four Kashmiri students of Mewar University in Rajasthan were allegedly beaten up by fellow students over rumours they cooked beef in their hostel and were later placed under preventive arrest by local police. After the incident, some Hindu activists reportedly also reached the campus and raised slogans against the university administration. The police recovered meat from the spot and it said that prima facie it appeared the meat was not beef, but a sample was sent to a forensic lab for testing. The police arrested the four students charging them with disturbing peace. They were released on bail on Wednesday with a warning that they would remain “under watch
Four Kashmiri students were arrested on charges of disturbing public peace following rumors that they had cooked beef in their hostel room in a private university in Rajasthan’s Chittorgarh district. Police said the students were allegedly manhandled by some others students and locals after the rumors spread but prima facie evidence suggested the meat found was not beef.
Kovilapalayam police arrested five persons belonging to a Hindu outfit for vandalising a church in Kalapatti, Coimbatore. They were against the church as a temple was located nearby. Of the arrested persons, P Sampath (43) is the formal zonal secretary of the BJP. The other four were identified as R Kutty (34), S Sakthivel (29), N Vignesh (25) and K Devaraj (60). The four men are said to belong to a fringe Hindu outfit. Based on a complaint by the person in charge of the church, a case was registered under Sections 295 (A) (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs), 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapons), 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint) and 506 (ii) (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3 of the Tamil Nadu Public Property (Prevention of Damage and Loss) Act.
Dinesh Jain, a former district co-ordinator of Bajrang Dal has lodged a complaint with the administrative officer and additional executive officer of the Puttur Mahalingeshwara temple objecting to the inclusion of the name of a Muslim in the invitation for the annual car festival of the temple. He has said that a Muslim inviting Hindus to come and obtain the blessings of a Hindu god has hurt the feelings of Hindus. The festival is scheduled to be held from April 10 to 20. The Muslim concerned is A.B. Ibrahim, the Deputy Commissioner of the district. According to Mr Jain inclusion of the name of the Deputy Commissioner is a violation of the Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments Act, 1997.
A group of 30-35 people allegedly affiliated to right wing organisation assaulted to two cattle traders from Pune at NH 66  near Tallur village in Kundapur
A group of more than 15 men allegedly disrupted a prayer meeting, manhandled locals and vandalized a church on the outskirts of Raipur. Locals alleged that the men arrived on bikes shouting “Jai Shri Ram” slogans. Police continues to insist on it being a land dispute.
A Muslim boy and a Christian girl, both students of a college in Mangaluru were having ice-cream at a parlour near the Thokkottu junction. Soon activists of a hindutva organization gathered outside the café. A member of the public who saw this called the Ullal police station and told them about it. The police immediately rushed to the spot and rescued the couple from an imminent attack. Later both the boy and the girl were warned and sent home.
When a bull with serious injuries on its hump was noticed by locals of Gangollia veterinary doctor and his assistant were called and the hapless animal was given necessary medical treatment. But Hindu Jagran Vedike of Gangolli tried to give a communal twist to the incident. It issued a circular saying this attack on the bull was an attempt to create unrest in society. Later Srinivas Poojary of Kodapadi Hosamane lodged a complaint with the Gangoli police asking them to trace the culprits responsible for harming the bull and take stringent action against them. Miscreants went to work and uploaded on social media a photo of the injured bull with messages designed to provoke Hindus’ feelings and adding the recently murdered hindutva activist Prashant Poojary’s name too. When the police saw these on WhatsApp a team went to the spot and started making inquiries. It was found that the bull had been engaged in a fight with other bulls and sustained injuries when it was hit by an iron sheet. It was learnt that some people from the area had made unsuccessful attempts to provide first aid to it. The police team detected traces of blood on the iron sheet. With this an incident which had all the potential to turn into a major communal one has been averted. The police are trying to trace the mobile from where the WhatsApp message had originated.
Ex. Union Minister of State for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, Anant Kumar Hegde’s hate speech against Muslims surfaces in the social media after he took oath as a Union Minister in the cabinet reshuffle by Prime Minister Narendra Modi In 2017. The old video from March 2016,   shows Mr. Hegde saying,
Villagers in Bokadi Village set the truck on fire when they saw it full of Cows. According to the news around 5:30 am villagers saw a truck and gather at the place and alleged that cow was going for the slaughtering and after that police logged an FIR from his side when no one came forward and launch a Manhunt to capture the Smugglers.  They recover 4 cows in an unconscious condition. Now, cows are in Cow Shed. The Smugglers were run when they listen to the police hooter.
On the account of Shivaji Jayanti, a right wing Hindutva group Shivaji Jayanti Mandal assembled at Ambedkar Chowk and tried hoisting saffron flags. Head constable Yunus Sheikh and Awaskar (Sub Inspector) did not allow them to hoist flags because it was a communally sensitive region. So, to teach him a lesson next day they arrived with a group of 100 men outside the police station and they were beaten by the crowd with iron rods and sharp knife-like objects. Also, they made him hoist the saffron flag on the same spot on which he had denied them and made him chant, ?Jai Bhawani. Jai Shivaji.? However, the police force came to their rescue.
Two groups of students of the Government First Grade College here and belonging to different faiths fought with each other using wooden clubs and stones. A Muslim boy found talking to a Hindu girl the previous evening was questioned by a section of students this morning. When this was objected to by another group a verbal clash ensued that ultimately turned into a physical clash resulting in injuries to five students. The Vittal police were called and they managed to separate the warring groups. The two groups have lodged separate complaints with the police. While one group gave a dispute during a cricket match as the reason, the second group has given the above-cited reason. The police are investigating.
Mischievous elements of VHP brutally thrashed the cattle traders of Minority Community. The injured victims were not taken to the hospital by the police long after the thrashing as the police were afraid of the mischievous elements. The perpetrators in fact made pressure on the police to register FIR against the Victim. The cattle traders were taking cattle in a truck when they were stopped by some VHP members and very soon many VHP members approached them raising slogans, shouting and creating chaos. Two traders escaped the crowd but the rest three were beaten brutally and thrown on the roadside. They also tried to set the truck on fire. The police reached the spot but did not do anything.
In AMU, Aligarh BJP activists spread the rumors of Beef Briyani in the Medical college canteen of AMU. Mayor from Aligarh Shakuntala Bharti with others go to the police officer and wants to register the case. But, according to the AMU administration in the canteen, they were eating buffalo meat and the rumors of cow meat are false.
A group of three persons forcibly stopped a motorcycle near Honnakatte at Kulai at around 4 p.m. and attacked the driver Ansar (22) with swords and knives leaving him seriously injured. Ansar was on his way home after picking up his younger brother from the NMPT School at Panambur. The Assistant Commissioner of Police Mada Gaoker visited the hospital and took the victim’s statement. According to Ansar the assailants were Nikhil, Bharat and Arjun, all members of Kodikere Lokesh gang. It is alleged that the intention behind this attack is to create disturbances in Kulai area.
Activists allegedly belonging to a Sangh Parivar organisation assaulted four boys and a girl who had come in a car to the Charmady Ghat here. It is not known whether the occupants of the car were students or members of the public. – (Newspaper, Karavali Ale, 19th)
Kishor who works as a home guard in the area under the jurisdiction of Pandeshwar  police station trespassed inside the Carmel College campus and beat up Mohammed Anish  (19), a II BBM student of the college. The incident occurred around 12:30 in the afternoon as Anish was on his way to have lunch. Kishor entered the campus in his two-wheeler and straightaway attacked Anish abusing him about his bike–wheeling. He claimed to be from the Pandeshwar police station. Anish was later admitted to a hospital. The Bantwal police have arrested Kishor as per the complaint lodged by Anish. Students of the college claim that Kishor has been involved in similar incidents before.
The two minor girl students of St Aloysius College who had gone missing on February 1 were traced at the Shornoor Railway Station today. The city police commissioner has said that the reason for their having gone missing would be known once they reach Mangaluru. But after the girls had gone missing police had allegedly taken Ahmed Nishar into custody. Nishar who is admitted to a private hospital in Mangaluru, has accused the police of assaulting him and abusing his mother and sister
There was a huge traffic snarl at Kalladka due to restrictions because of road repair. When two vehicles suffered a mild hit and immediately both the drivers got into an argument. At this Tousif, brother of Bava who is the owner of the local Welcome Hotel tried to intervene and advised them against fighting. But he was beaten by the occupants of one vehicle. When news spread about a Muslim being beaten by Hindu men, a number of Muslim youth gathered at the spot and assaulted the first group. Soon more clashes erupted. A third group at the Sri Rama School also started throwing stones and soda water bottles. Reportedly another group went to the Welcome Hotel and threatened Bava with dire consequences. Arrival of the police and a lathi-charge by them helped ease the tensions. It is reported that several vehicles were damaged during the clashes. All shops and establishments were closed. However some time later miscreants attacked an elderly couple Muhammed, Mariamma and their son Abdulla who had gone to purchase medicines. All three have been admitted to hospital. Investigations are in progress and the police have taken some persons into custody.
Six trucks full of Animals goes from Punjab to Moradabad . Near Nand Nagri area in New Delhi people's who belongs from  Hindu Yuva Sangh stop two trucks on the information that they carry cows . Six persons who carry those animals wants to escape from that place and one of them fire over Mob and escaped but five others were caught by the mob and beaten . Police came late at the place of incident and mob attack on the police due to delay in process and in clash some police personals was injured. FIR (First Information Report) was filed against peoples but no one is arrested .
In a shocking incident of revenge, which shows that anti-social elements have no fear of police, a Muslim man was beaten to death in broad daylight by four men. The incident took place on Sunday on a street Kerala’s capital Thiruvananthapuram. The killing of the youth was also recorded on camera. The video of the brutal act was uploaded on Facebook and went viral.
An attempt at creating rift in the society, the spreadsheet (‘chadar’) put on a tomb on Parpalegudde near here was found partly charred around the weekend.The tomb is held in reverence by Muslims as Tipu Sultan cave and prayers are held on Fridays and Sundays by the community members residing around the place.Others have recently begun to call the hill Krishnagiri and the name of the cave for them is Ambarish cave now. After the prayer session today, the community members had spread the chadar over the tomb. A group led by Anil Prabhu, town convener of Bajrang Dal, got into the cave and set it on fire. On receiving the news, the police, in order to prevent further trouble, arrested four of them – Anil Prabhu, Atmananda, Akshay Shetty Doopadakatte and Raghavendra Gundaje – while Deepu Nakre, Ganesh and Ranjan are said to be absconding. Udupi SP Annamalai, accompanied by Karkala ASP Dr Suman Pernekar, visited the spot and ensured that there was no flare-up after the incident.
A Muslim man(Rafiq) was drubbed to death after being tied to a utility pole in Bhalswa Dairy of New Delhi. Accused Ramakant has alleged that Rafiq had tried to rob him with the help of his friends and this led to a fight between them after which Ramakant caught hold of Rafiq and tied him to the pole. As the crowd gathered around the pole after this, they attacked Rafiq and thrashed him to death.  But no FIR had been filed by Ramakant against Rafiq for robbery.  The police have arrested 4 people, namely Ramakant, Pawan, Prince, and one unknown, under charges of murder.
A truck was set on fire in Panipat in suspicion that it was carrying beef. As the truck was passing the road,  some people saw blood dripping from the truck. Locals gathered and started shouting. Soon, they pulled the driver out, thrashed him brutally and set the truck on fire. They blocked the road saying beef was being smuggled on the same. Police had to lathi charge to control the mob. However, the police did not take any action against the anti-social elements.
Indian Cricketer Md. Shami's brother, Md. Haseeb was arrested in cow slaughter Case. The police have alleged that they were preparing to arrest Rizwan, an absconder in a cow slaughter case when Haseeb reached the spot and entered into a scuffle with the cops. In the ensuing chaos, Rizwan escaped and the police arrested Haseeb. Tauseef Ahmad, the cricketer's father, alleged his family was in
A communal conflict took place once again in Seoni District of MP. The incident happened when people of one community took out rallies after the arrested accused, of the communal violence that happened in the same place the previous year, were released on bail.  The police enforced section 144 in Borigaon and Seoni District of MP
A Muslim couple, Md. Hussain and Naseema were beaten by Gau Raksha Samiti members on the Khirkiya Railway Station in Harda District of Madhya Pradesh in the suspicion that they were carrying beef in the train. The couple was on their way from Hyderabad to their hometown in Harda when 7 members of the Gau Raksha Samiti boarded the general compartment of Kushinagar Express and started a raid searching the passengers' luggage for beef.  On Naseema's objection to this, she was pushed towards the toilet. Md. Hussain was beaten by the Samiti members after he abused them for misbehaving with Naseema. The Gau Raksha Samiti claimed that they seized
While the members of one Muslim community were digging a grave in the Kabristan to bury their dead one, some people of the Majority community objected to the same saying that the land belonged to them. As the tension grew, the police were informed who reached the spot along with Additional Collector who talked to people of both the communities and later the body was buried at the same place. The people of the majority community, however, said they would move the court to claim authority over the land.
A student named Nadeem was discriminated on the basis of having a beard in his class. The teacher Pankaj Kakkar after entering the class told all the muslim boys to stand up and pointing towards Nadeem beard said that if you will not cut your beard do not come to college, if you want to come to college you have to cut your beard
THREE DAYS after a mahapanchayat was held over a missing Hindu woman, the Shamli police on 28th December arrested Acharya Jasveer Maharaj, a local sadhu who is alleged to have made an inflammatory speech that led to communal tension in the area. The mahapanchayat was attended by BJP MP Hukum Singh and MLA Suresh Rana. “We received information about Jasveer Maharaj planning to carry out a march in connection with the incident. Based on the information, the team arrested him from Muzaffarnagar district,” said Vijay Bhushan, SP, Shamli district. Jasveer, who runs a local ashram, has been sent to police custody. The mahapanchayat was called on Friday over the Shamli police’s “failure” to trace the 23-year-old Hindu woman, who went missing with a tenant of her family on November 28. The woman has since been traced.
Three days after Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar announced in Panipat that criminal cases against ‘gau rakshaks’ in Haryana would be revoked, an unidentified ‘cow protection vigilante’ team shot dead a migrant worker near Bhanukheri village in this district in the wee hours of Wednesday. The deceased, 25-year-old Khush Noor, is a native of Ballamajra village in Saharanpur. Another man, Ehsaan, suffered a minor injury and after being administered first aid was discharged from hospital. Superintendent of police Pankaj Nain told HT that there was no evidence to prove that cows were being smuggled in the vehicle or any other illegal activity was on. Inspector general of police, Karnal, Hanif Qureshi “A group of gau raksha volunteers had duly informed the police about possible movement of cow smugglers in the area on Tuesday late night. A police party was working with them and it has not been ruled out yet if our own men opened fire at the innocent persons killing one man. We are very closely monitoring those who were on duty and the volunteers on the spot,” “A case of murder and attempt to murder has been registered against the culprits. Our teams are close to final conclusions and even if a police employee or volunteer is found involved in the crime, strict legal action will be initiated,” he said. “Following their own networks or suspicions, cow protection volunteers work in coordination with the police authorities to nab cattle smugglers. Most of the times, these operations are undertaken by the police and these volunteers only remain present on the spot. However, on a few occasions the volunteers scuffle with alleged smugglers when police is not present on the spot. But no serious law and order is ever reported in Karnal range due to the volunteers,” he said
In December 2015, during the local panchayat polls, Khushnood Khan was killed while he was going to vote, allegedly by Gau Raksha Dal members on the suspicion that he had consumed beef.
Violent clashes broke out in Haryana's Palwal district on Thursday when villagers stopped a truck allegedly carrying cow's meat. At least 10 people, including policemen, were badly injured when pro-cow volunteers took on the truck and the local police. The driver managed to escape but the co-driver got beaten up, police said. The district’s animal husbandry department told The Hindu that the now seized contentious meat is likely to be that of a camel and not cows. A rioting case as well as one under provisions pertaining to overloading and permit violation of meat, is in the process of being registered; the driver was arrested and the confiscated meat was sent for checking.
Osmania University students planned to celebrate Beef Festival. But, BJP MLA from Goshamal, Telangana warns the beef eaters that we are ready to take life or give life in protection of
Mumbai: The controversy started over the issue of not standing during the Jana Gana man.although the man pleads that he is having a knee problem so he can't stand up but the crowd was not in a mood of listening to the plea of the victim and abuse and threaten him to leave the cinema hall with his family and unsurprisingly the family belongs to the Muslim community.
A  student of 10th class was prevented from getting admission in school as he was sporting a beard. When the parents of the child reached the school and complained, the authorities gave a letter pad with instruction that students are not allowed to come with a beard in school.
BJP MP Yogi Adityanath compared Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan to Pakistani terrorist Hafiz Saeed, the mastermind of Mumbai carnage, over his
The police found the bloodied and battered body of the man, Mohammad Hasmat Ali, early Monday morning in the remote village of Uchekon Moiba Thongkhong in Manipur, a state in northeast India. Mr. Ali, 55, married with three sons, was a leader in the neighboring village of Keirao Makting, where he was headmaster of a madrasa. Police officials said Mr. Ali had no criminal record and no known links to the cattle business. Hindustan Times reported that Ali's body was taken to Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Medical Sciences (JNIMS) in Imphal, while the calf is being kept at the local police station. While the Congress Party is in power in Manipur, Muslims are refusing to bury Ali until the Bharatiya Janata Party-led central government promises that justice will be served. Tensions remain high in the area around Muslim-dominated Keirao Makting village in Imphal East district. “Ali, a kind-hearted and honest teacher, was killed after being accused of a crime he could not have committed. The police know who his assailants are but are not taking action. We will not take his body from JNIMS for burial until justice is done,
A false case of gang rape and forced conversion was filed against Kaleem and his friends. The Sangh Parivar said this to be an example of love jihad- an Islamist conspiracy to lure and convert Hindu women. 3 months later the girl went to the police alleging that she was forced by her parents to charge her Muslim lover with rape and conversion out of greed for money from a local BJP leader. She told the police that she has gone out of her own will and later also filed a case against her parents.
Activists from a right wing group created a ruckus at Kerala House near Jantar Mantar on 26th October, alleging that the canteen there was serving cow meat (in the name of beef on the menu). K.G. Joseph, a protocol officer at the State’s guest house, however, said that the word beef in the menu referred to buffalo meat, consuming which was legal in the Capital. Three members of Hindu Sena, who barged into the house complex after being instigated by a Vishwa Hindu Parishad activist from Kerala, also sought police intervention in the matter. They even threatened to resort to violence if the “sale of cow meat” was not stopped there
Members of the Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) allegedly blackened the faces of two Ajmer municipal corporation officials over the death of two cows and three calves at a corporation-run shelter for stray cows. According to officials, the cows had died due to consumption of plastic.
In Kanpur, two police inspectors were shot at and several others injured while they were trying to control the members of two communities who clashed following a dispute over alleged “disrespect” to a poster of a Hindu deity in Fazalganj area. Clashes spread to Chamanganj and Sisamau police station areas where members of both communities hurled bricks and opened fire at the police, which was trying to take control of the situation. Inspectors Mahendra Pal Sharma and D K Singh suffered bullet injuries on their legs. Inspector General (Kanpur Zone) Ashutosh Pandey said that the police officer got injured when stray bullets hit them while they were trying to control the crowd.
In Bhilwara, at a distance of about 430 kilometres from Sri Dungargarh, the situation remained tense after the alleged killing of 20-year-old Islamuddin on 23rd October.
Two Muslim boys were assaulted by the group of Shiv Sena activists and the local peoples because they recover ox hide from both of them. Police charged case on the victims under the cow protection act of UP.  According to the police when they reach the spot the duo is tied with the tree. and, police also don't register any case against the goons who beat the duo.
Some unidentified men barged into Press Club of India and smeared black ink on Rasheed's face while shouting, “Gau Mata ki jai”. Little known fringe group called Hindu Sena headed by one Vishnu Gupta later claimed the responsibility of the attack. Meanwhile, Delhi Police detained two men after the incident.
Some policemen allegedly beat up two Muslim youth at a police station in suburban Bandra and asked them to go to Pakistan for being
Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar said that Muslims can live in India but they will have to give up eating beef. Cow here is an article of Faith he said.
A 20-year-old from Saharanpur was allegedly killed in Sarahan by villagers who believed he was involved in smuggling of cattle, police said. Four others, alleged to be part of the same smuggling gang, were beaten up.The four men allegedly accompanying Noman have been taken into custody and booked under Section 11 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, Section 8 of the Himachal Pradesh Cow Slaughter Act and Section 429 of the IPC . Police said a case under Section 302 of the IPC has been registered against unknown persons. No arrests have been made.
A Srinagar-bound truck was set on fire allegedly by cow vigilantes in Jammu’s Udhampur district, which left three men — two Kashmiris and a policeman — battling burn injuries, while the driver managed to escape unhurt. Six were held and charged with a case of attempt to murder. Sources said three people, including the driver, were sleeping in the truck when it was set on fire on Friday. The driver died, two others in the truck were injured.
Rumours of cow slaughter led to violence in Karhal town of Mainpuri on Friday. Police had to resort to firing to control the mob that went on a rampage, burning vehicles and shops, after rumours that two butchers had been spotted slaughtering a cow spread like wildfire in the region. The villagers reportedly caught hold of the butchers — Lalla and Shafiq — and physically assaulted them before police arrived. As police tried to take away the duo, villagers tried to stop the police jeep and drag the two out. The police jeep was also targeted, said reports. Police control room was informed and additional force were sent in.
Bhartiya Janata party MP Sakshi maharaj warned that insults to one’s “biological mother”, “Bharat mata” and “Gau mata’ would continue to evoke strong reactions. “If someone insults our mother, we would rather die than tolerate it....for us, it is bharat mata, our biological mother and gau mata, the MP from Unnao said. According to him, people will be ready to kil or get killed if a terrorist attacks “Bharat mata”. It is the same with one’s biological mother and “gau mata, he told ANI.
A cattle trader in Karnataka had a narrow escape after Bajrang Dal activists attacked him with metal rods and chains on a rumour about a stolen cow even as protests erupt across the country against the lynching of a Muslim man on suspicion of slaughtering a cow.
Indefinite curfew was imposed in Barghat town after violence erupted over the death of a local BJP leader, Kapoorchand Thakrey, in Nagpur after he was allegedly roughed up by two youths. It is alleged that Thakre's car hit a motorcyclist who tried to stop the car but he sped away. Two youths chased him, pulled him out of the car and assaulted him which led to his death. Those two youth were later arrested. The situation worsened when the supporters of Thakrey indulged in stone-pelting and arson, district administration imposed prohibitory orders under Section 144 in the town.
50 muslim families are leaving the village of Bisara in Dadri after the incident of mob lynching of Ikhlaq. Victim family says they feel insecure and want to move to a muslim majority village.
On 28 September, 2015, at around 10.30 pm, Akhlaq and his family were preparing to go to bed, when a feverish mob wielding sticks and other weapons stormed into his house and accused the family of slaughtering a cow and eating the same, reported the BBC. Akhlaq was lynched, his son Danish, 22, was brutally beaten up and some people also assaulted Danish's grandmother and molested her. The mob was reportedly acting on rumours that a calf had gone missing on 16 September and that its remains were found near Akhlaq's home, while Akhlaq was allegedly seen throwing a bag containing meat which villagers claimed was from the missing calf. A court on 14 July, 2016, ordered the registration of a case and further investigation against Akhlaq's family for alleged cow slaughter. Acting on the court order, police (on 15 July) lodged an FIR against the late Mohammad Akhlaq and six family members for alleged cow slaughter, while the family decided to challenge the FIR in the Allahabad High Court seeking directions for its quashing. On 26 August, the Allahabad High Court stayed the arrest of five family members of Akhlaq, while refusing to grant relief to Akhlaq's brother Jaan Mohammed, who was among the six people named in the FIR lodged against the family.  Eighteen local youths, including three juveniles, were charged with murder and assault in the case of Akhlaq. The juveniles were granted bail in 2015 while the adults were granted bail by the high court subsequently.
Communal tension was created over the announcement of animal sacrifice in Eidgah which led to Bakrid not being celebrated in the village Ghasuli of Kankarkheda area. No Eid prayer was offered and no sacrifice was done in the whole area.
M M Basheer, a noted literary critic and former professor of Malayalam at the University of Calicut, stopped his column named ‘Ramayanam Jeevithasaramritham’ (Essence of Ramayana) in Malalayalam daily Mathrubhumi after he received as many threat and abuse calls from the right wing groups. Basheer, who is 75, was originally entitled to write six columns for the newspaper, however, stopped at five after the threats escalated to an intolerable level. He got continuous pestering calls mocking his identity as a Muslim writing a column based on a Hindu script.
A case of rioting was registered at the Mayur Vihar police station after trucks carrying cattle, allegedly for slaughter, were intercepted by residents of Chilla village. Police said the angry residents clashed with the truck drivers and stone-pelting followed.
Police entered  mosque while wearing shoes and started beating people sitting inside the mosque,when asked the reason they used more physical force. This incident had led to fear in around 150 families ,who are now planning to leave the area. Police has destroyed 70 percent of the mosque saying it was illegal. And after that they had conducted raids and arrested 12 people including women.
Anas Qureishi, Arif Qureishi, Nazim were killed by Gau rakshak Dal. This incident happened in Gautam Budh Nagar Uttar pradesh.  Police hesitated to file murder against the accused, FIR incl 302, registered only after family protested. No news of progress Cross case filed on day of incident No arrests. The police said an FIR had been lodged by the villagers against the alleged smugglers under sections 382 (theft), 457 (trespass) and 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC. Senior police officers said another FIR was likely to be filed against the villagers.
Sister Sabita was not allowed to give All India Pre Medical Test Exam as she was covering he head with scarf and in addition to that was wearing a cross around her neck . The school authorities said that they were following CBSE  guidelines of dress code. They were not willing to even provide a separate room where she could give the exam in presence of invigilators.
Muslims in the area are very disappointed by the police. They are saying the police of instead of arresting people who looted and burnt their houses along with attacking by swords ,are filing false charges against them. They have said that if the police will not withdraw false charges, they will leave the village.
There was a land dispute between Haji Imran Warsi and Chandra Gupta which created an atmosphere of communal tension in Kannauj. After this murder, fire incidents and fighting incidents took place in the city. 40 year old Aqeel was killed. Akhtar Ahmad complained that 20 people had burnt his sweet shop with fire.
Muslims of the village said a group of 5 came in the middle of a namaz going on in the mosque and started beating everyone including the imam. They later broke the doors and windows and started beating the innocent people of the area. While Hindus of the areas are saying some Muslims started flinging stones, entered the temple and did unmentionable things to stop the prayers including urinating in temple.
A communally tense situation building up in North-East Delhi’s Shriram Colony since the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) mobilised its cadre for a massive “Ekatrikaran Shakha” on June 29, left the locals intimidated and worried. According to the residents, the lathi-wielding RSS volunteers, who gathered at a public park, declared they will hold a maha sammelan at there from July 17 to 19, coinciding with the Eid-al-Fitr celebrations. Muslims have been offering Eid prayers in the park every year. The locals pointed out that miscreants were trying to add to the communally charged atmosphere by playing loud music during iftaar and the night prayers, and shouting “provocative slogans” during the morning shakhas.
50-year-old Muslim man lynched by 5 men from another community in Singhavli village UP over a heated argument on the price of an ice cube with the shopkeeper Kuldeep Kashyap. Members from his community blocked Meerut-Bhagpat highway and protested against his death placing the body on road.
Shamli district in Uttar Pradesh has been tense after Bajrang Dal activists beat up a Muslim man for allegedly stealing a calf. The activists claimed that the man was planning to slaughter the calf. A case has been registered against six Bajrang Dal men, including its district convener, Vivek Premi.
Hindu Mahasabha has launched a campaign in its executive meeting named Islam Mukt Bharat. Under this campaign, each Hindu family will be provided a sword to protect themselves from Muslims, to go to Vishwanath Mandir and after putting water in it, will make India into Hindu Rashtra on the First Monday of the month Sawan, to remove Minority Commission saying the welfare of Muslims is done from the mone of Hindus. They also said that billions are spent on the maintenance of graveyards of Muslims by government. They said graveyards should be declared the property of Hindus.
Bijnor police on the order of politician of ruling party grabbed the land of a madrasa. This further lead to clash between the police and the community in the form of stone-pelting and lathi charge. After this the police  filed serous offences against 150 persons
A female teacher was forced by the school not to wear a scarf during employment. When she refused to accept this order from the authorities, she was told to resign from the post of assistant mistress. When she came to the school wearing a scarf she was told by the principal that another person has been appointed in place of her.
A Muslim man named Mohd. Ali Ismail not only lost his job but was labeled as a terrorist by the managing director of the company in which he was working. He was working with a company named Adhunik Group of Industries as a general manager. He has started to keep a beard after performing Hajj last year. After that, his salary was halved. When he started asking about the restoration of his salary from the managing director Manoj Aggarwal he labeled him as a terrorist and called security guards to make him exit the office. However, the managing director of the company is saying that Ali is a fraud and liar, in addition to his brother said that he threatened them and threatened them to destroy the office.
Fencing of a grave yard was destroyed by dozens of Hindu Yuva Vahini anti- social elements along with order of BJP MP Dadan Mishra. The MP had sent a memorandum to file a fake fir under section 108 and section 112 along with stating that the land was forcefully illegally occupied by muslims of the area and it was a government property.
Tension prevailed in Lucknow’s Old City area in evening after Hindus and Muslims clashed, leading to heavy police force being deployed at the spot. Police said a function on bhajans was being held at a Hanuman temple in the area where the organisers also distributed sherbet to devotees. Initially, the quarrel started when local Muslims objected to the use of loudspeaker at the temple at the time of azaan for Friday prayers. “At the time of azaan, the members of Muslim community objected to the use of loudspeaker at the temple, as it was a new tradition. The matter was resolved then. But later in the evening, the two groups quarreled and indulged in stone pelting,” said Circle Officer Raj Kumar. The two groups were soon joined by others from their communities and both sides reportedly opened fire. The situation was brought under control after the police arrived at the spot
A tin-shed that lies tumbled over the sand in village Birloka marks the spot where 60-year-old Abdul Ghaffar Qureshi was lynched by a mob on May 30 this year. Once a meat shop, the shed was ruined, Ghaffar was beaten up and his house destroyed, on the pretext that he might, in future, sell beef at his shop. Four months before the Dadri lynching, in the Rajasthan village of Birloka, 350 km from Jaipur, an angry mob allegedly beat Ghaffar with sticks and iron rods till a family in the neighbourhood tore through the mob to save him. Ghaffar died the following day.
Communal tension erupted in the village of Atali after group of two communities clashed.  A group of Hindus were against the construction of a madrasa in school which was being owned by the Muslim community. After the incident 1500 officers have been deployed in the area.  The incident has affected 150 Muslim families which have demanded protection from the administration so that they could live peacefully in their house.
Misbah Quadri, a 25-year-old communications professional from Gujarat,  was forced to vacate the apartment she had taken on rent with her two Hindu roommates because of her religion. They had rented a three-bedroom apartment at Sanghvi Heights, Wadala, through a broker.  Before shifting she was warned by the broker that the housing society does not accept Muslim tenants. She was advised to sign an undertaking stating that the developer, builder or the broker won't be held responsible in case she faces any harassment from neighbours on account of my religion.  She and her roommates thought they could reason with the broker and the owner after moving in as they disagreed with the clauses, however, a week later they were asked to vacate the apartment and the representative of the developer also said that it was their policy not to have Muslim tenants.  She also said that more than the financial setback, it was the emotional trauma of being subjected to discrimination due to her religion. She also recollected instances where some brokers were glad that she did not wear a burqa.
An atmosphere of tension was created after an individual was attacked with an Axe by a group of people from the same village, Condition of victim is critical. Police have not arrested anyone saying that the environment will further deteriorate if any further action will be taken
The mosque was being built on the disputed area under the court's provision. But it led to attacks on the Muslim community by the Jats. The violence led to total burning and looting of 20 houses and shops and vandalization of many more. Approximately 150 families fled the village fearing more violence. Police have lodged an FIR under sections pertaining to riot. Investigation is going on.

A 23-year-old MBA Graduate Zeeshan Ali Khan based in Mumbai had applied for a job at the jewellery firm, Hari Krishna Exports, but failed to get an interview with the company. He had applied for an opening in the company on May 19 and according to him, received a response within 15 minutes which said that they hire only non-Muslim candidates. He then posted the offensive email on Facebook and filed a complaint with the police against the firm in Mumbai. The firm, however, said that the email was mistakenly sent by a human resource trainee and that he has been suspended. The firm further asserted that the company functions without any caste, religion or gender bias and more than 50 employees are from the minority community and people from 28 states are working in our group companies.
A girl named Farheen  Fatima was not allowed to enter her school on her 1st day as she was wearing Hijab. The school authority is saying that none of the other Muslim girl wears Hijab. They are saying that dress code for all the girls is same and they are not going to change it for anyone.
Muslim man named Sanwar while  travelling to his home from farm was attacked by 4 young men from motorcycle who stopped him and started beating him. He was beaten by  pistol and to such an extent that he became unconscious . After that the group cut the beard of Sanwar and fled from the spot. This has led to communal tension in the area.
In Delhi, the road signages with the names of famous rulers like Akbar, Firoz Shah were blackened by the Shiv Sena. They claimed that it was a protest against the usage of names of 'Muslim' invaders and anti-nationals in public places. Police complaint has been registered. CCTV footage is being used to find the miscreants.
In 2012, Yagnik delivered the Naroda Patiya case order( 2002 massacre of 97 muslims), convicting 32 people, among them former Gujarat Minister and BJP leader Maya Kodnani and former Bajrang Dal leader Babu Bajrangi. She has received 22 threat letters since that verdict.
On May 10, 2015 at Dewas, a pastor and his congregation, were attacked by a mob allegedly led by HIndu Fundamentalists in the evening as the Church was gathered for their Sunday worship as usual. The attackers pushed the Church members around and verbally abused the Pastor, pushing him around as well. Police and media personnel accompanied the attackers. The police took the Pastor and congregation into custody and took them to Kotwali police station in Dewas for questioning. Other local pastors, who had gone to the Sacred Heart School (where the Church normally meets) after hearing the news, were also attacked by fanatics. After midnight the police finally let the congregation members, about 40 people, go. The police subsequently released the Pastor too.
Ashok Bhuria, the priest of the temple, fired upon Sajid Vora, the ex-councillor using his licensed weapon alleging that a mob tried to storm the temple by pelting stones. The FIR that has been filed had that Vora and Bhuria fought over parking of his two-wheeler after which Bhuria shot him dead.
The clash between the two communities started when Muslim community allegedly attacked the procession of the Hindu community's convoy on its way back. As they passed the mosque they were attacked. It resulted in heavy bombing and firing from both sides. it also killed 4 people and injured 8. the police said that the situation is under control now.
A five member team of Tablighi Jamaat, a Muslim Organisation, were allegedly beaten up in a local train by Jat youths. Following the incident, the agitated group gathered outside the police station and demanded immediate arrest. The mob also indulged in violence by pelting stones on the police station and setting police vehicles on fire. Police brought the situation under control.
3 people parked to pick up van bearing registration no. UP44T-4788 was trying to load some buffaloes belonging to Shankar in Nasrapur locality of Kotwali Dehat area of Bahraich.  The villagers noticed their activity and reached the spot in the wee hours of the morning. The crowd lynched one individual, while the second one died while trying to escape in an accident as the vehicle turned turtle and the last man managed to escape. Police have registered a case and sent the bodies of both the smugglers for an autopsy. Later, the police nabbed the third smuggler who had managed to give a slip to the villagers.
On April 20, 2015 at Mokhpal Village, Dantewada, the Christians in the village have been receiving threats for over two weeks. Hindutva fundamentalists have also  threatened to destroy the church property in the village
On April 20, 2015 at Hisua, Nawada, 3 pastors were arrested after being falsely accused of conversion. The fundalmentalists had alleged that they were converting mahadalits by using Christian literature. After due investigations, the police said that all allegations against the 3 pastors were false
A group of people entered the religious place. They assaulted 2 persons and then also damaged the loudspeaker. They also fired the gun shots in the air. The accused has been identified and police are now trying to nab them. The accused then allegedly fired rounds of shots in the air in order to escape.
On April 16, 2015 in Agra, unidentified people damaged four statues of Mother Mary and wrapped a dog chain around one of them in early morning vandalism at St. Mary's Church. The persons also broke window panes of a car parked inside the church premise.
All India Hindu Mahasabha Vice President Sadha Deva Thakur demanded forced  'Nasbandi' (sterilisation) of Muslims and Christians to restrict their numbers in the country's population. This statement was supported by the Shiv Sena party by saying that what they meant was that was regard to family planning. Muslims are poor and uneducated so they have lots of children and therefore large families are not able to take care of their children properly and then they become terrorists. So he said that whatever they are trying to do is to uplift the Muslim Community. This led to a nationwide furore.
Sakshi Maharaj said in Unnao that the government is working on a family plan to eliminate the families of men having 4 wives and 40 children. He also urged his community to produce 4 kids in each family.
Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Rawat made a hate speech against 20 crores Muslim by saying that their voting rights should be taken away in the newspaper Saamna. He also said that in the name of freedom they are using in excess. He said that Muslim leaders who work for Muslim or those leaders who give speeches for Muslim leads to automatically voting of Hindus in their favor. He said that the current rate of increase of Muslims will lead to India becoming an Islamic State.
On April 13, 2015 at  Vaylu, Coimbatore  the local Panchayat passed orders to ban the Church in the village. The Apostolic Church with a congregation of about 15 Christians has been in the village for over 4 years. Hindutva fundamentalists had stopped the services in the Church in November 2014 and then passed the order by word to ban the Church
A leader of Hindu Mahasabha on Saturday stoked a controversy saying Muslims and Christians must undergo sterilization to restrict their growing population which was posing a threat to Hindus.
On April 10, 2015 at Bulandshahar, Uttar Pradesh, the foundation stone that was laid for the Church to be built was vandalized and broken by unidentified assailants. The Foundation Stone was laid in 1989 at the Methodist Episcopal Church compound, now known as Bulandshahar Methodist Church which presently houses a school and ladies hostel. A complaint was filed the next day with the Kotwal of the Avas Vikash Bulandshahr P.S and a complaint was separately mailed by post to the SSP and the DM .
Scrap dealer Aliasgar Zaveri had bought the bungalow in Bhavnagar’s posh Sanatorium area on January 10, 2014. But under pressure from Hindu neighbours, VHP and RSS, Zaveri, a Bohra Muslim, sold his bungalow to real-state firm Bhumiti Associates on December 30, 2014. Sanatorium near Meghani Circle is a Hindu-dominated locality. Out of around 150 bungalows, only four have Muslim owners. Out of the four, two migrated to the Shishoo Vihar area after the 2002 riots. Two months after Zaveri bought the bungalow from hotelier Kishoresinh Gohil for Rs 49 lakh, Hindu residents of the area started protesting, saying the food habits of Muslims may offend them and that it could open the floodgates for the entry of other Muslims into the area.
On the eve of Hanuman Jayanti, communal violence took place between the two communities. The communities resorted to stone pelting and they also set ablaze a dozen of shops by sprinkling inflammable material. Fifteen people were injured including 3 policemen.
On April 1, 2015 in Dhangusara, Pathankot, the Pastor of the Tarmal Prayer Tower was attacked by Hindutva fundamentalists for starting a Church in the area . An FIR was registered.
On March 28, 2015 in Swar Tehsil, Rampur, Hindutva fundamentalists objected to the Church services and asked the congregation to leave the village. The incident occurred when the leader of the Maswasi Village along with Hindutva fundamentalists came to The Salvation for Asia Church and asked them to vacate the premises that they had hired for Church services. The Church still has two more years left according to the lease deed.
On March 26, 2015 in Kunnamkulam, Trishur, Kerala suspected Hindu extremists partially burned up  Church of God and also the two motor bikes and car of pastor Emmanuel in the wee hours of the morning. The incident took place after the pastor distributed leaflets for conducting Vocational Bible School on  April 6. Police complaint was filed and police investigation is going on
On March 21, 2015 at New Panvel, Navi Mumbai, the St George Catholic Church was attacked in the early hours as unidentified men hurled stones inside the church and damaged the glass enclosure of the statue. According to the CCTV footage, the attack was carried out by two persons who were riding pillion on a motorcycle at around 1:30 am when they hurled stones at the Church located near a bridge in the area. In the incident, the covering glass outside the statue of Saint George got damaged
On March 20, 2015 in Thiruvarur, a Church was set on fire resulting in damage of property. The arson attack took place at the Jesus Loves Prayer House at 11:30 pm. Two days before the incident, fundamentalists had objected to the repairs that the Church was undertaking and had threatened the Pastor. The Police then intervened to ensure that the repair work was not obstructed and that it continued. An FIR has been filed at the Peralam police station post the incident.

Subramaniam Swamy said that masjid is not a religious place and it can be demolished at any time. He said that the mosque is not a religious place and it is only a building. It can be removed anytime. He has been charged with criminal conspiracy and for promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion.
On March 16, 2015, in Visakhapatnam, fundamentalists opposed to the construction of a Church building in the area. The independent church led by BrotherAshok Kumar has been there for 20 years in a small hut with 50 members which was now being constructed into a proper building.
On March 16, 2015 in Multai, Police detained four pastors for two days  “ as a preventive measure from the violent mob” after the Hindu extremists stopped their prayer meeting, accused them of forceful conversion and dragged them to the police station. The police released the pastors without any charges against them
On March 15, 2015 at Rayapara, Dankuni, Hooghly, 11 families were forcibly asked to leave the village by Hindutva fundamentalists. Out of 11 families, 10 families are still there in the village as they own a house in the village whereas one family who had a rented accommodation moved out of the village and are staying with the Pastor of Agape In Action Church. Earlier, on March 10, 2015, a mob had attacked the Christians in the village during a prayer
On March 15, 2015 in Ranaghat, a 71-year-old nun of a convent school was gang-raped early on Saturday. She was injured so badly that she had to undergo a surgery. The elderly nun was assaulted when a band of robbers raided the Convent of Jesus and Mary, reportedly stole more than Rs. 8 lakhs and vandalized its chapel
On March 14, 2015 at Hisar, Haryana, an under-construction church in Kaimri village was found to be vandalised by a group and the cross replaced with an idol of Hanuman. Father Subhash Chand of Believers Church lodged a complaint against 14 people, following which a case was registered by police under sections 147 (Punishment for rioting), 153A (promoting enmity between groups), 295 (destroying, damaging a place of worship with intent to insult the religion of any class of persons), 380 (theft in a building), 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC. Police said that on March 6, a group of youths entered the plot where the church was being built, and forcibly installed a Hanuman idol there. Earlier, on Febraury 11, 2015, fundamentalists had attempted to destroy the cross installed on the Church Building that was under construction
On March 9, 2015 in Farmana Badshahpur Village, Rohtak, local villagers objected to Mr. Mukesh being a part of Uddar ka Jeevan church in Kalanaur. Fundamentalists gathered outside the Primary Health Center where he was employed and protested him being a Christian. They created a ruckus in protest threatening him not to share about his faith  and go to church. Later, they opposed him working at the Heath Center and got him fired by his contractors
One activist was picked up from Damini Chowk, Jantar Mnatar and detained by the police for screening India's daughter at 'Ravidas Camp'. 'India's Daughter' is a documentary made by Leslee Udwin on the 16 Decemeber rape and murder incident of a 23-year-old medical student. The documentary has been banned by the government.
On March 8, 2015 in Sector 35, Faridabad, the Bethania Church was disrupted  and later threatened by Hindu Fundamentalists during their morning worship service.  They beat upthe Christians while threatening them but no one was reported to be injured. All Christians were asked to leave the premises. The Christians then went to a neighboring branch Church and continued their worship. The Church has been in the area for 24 years.
On March 8, 2015, at Jhajjar, a church was attacked by fundamentalists and vandalized the property. Though no one was hurt, damages to the Anant Parmeshwar ka Mandir Church and other property were reported. The Police later intervened and settled the matter between the Church and the attackers. Though the matter was settled, they have been receiving threats from the fundamentalists to stop their Church worship
Syed Farid Khan had allegedly raped a girl who was from Nagaland. The local crowd got so violent over this that they raided the local jail, took Khan out of the jail, paraded him naked and killed him in full public view. The police could not do anything.
A group of individuals from Hindu Yuva Vahini along with the presence of police warned the people that they would attack and demolish the mosque if new pillar is erected on the old mosque.
On March 2, 2015 in Nagapalli Anai (Dam) area, Pennagaram Taluk, it was reported that Ps. Manivaran of the Holy Bible Revival Church was denied permission to conduct Church service in the area. The local tehsildar issued a statement to him denying entry into the area without citing any explanation. Earlier, the Church was stopped in January 2015 as local groups opposed his entering in to the village.
On March 1, 2015 in Jobat, Alirajpur, Hindutva fundamentalists raised slogans outside a prayer hall falsely accusing Christians of conversions. Around 300 Christians were present in the Church of North India's prayer hall on Jhabua Road at 10 am when the fundamentalists arrived nearly an hour after the Sunday prayer began. They raised anti-Christian slogans and also hurled insults during their protest till the police arrived. No report was filed.
On February 28 at Chellapally, Mandal, Rangareddy, Telangana, a mob of 30 fundamentalists arrived and attacked the Chellapally Baptist Church and beat up 3 persons. The Church was hosting the month-end prayer in the evening when some neighbors objected to the use of speakers in the Church compound. Even after decreasing the sound, the mob came and attacked the Christians who were gathered for prayer. No persons were injured and no damage to property was reported
On Feb 28 in Nagercoil, fundamentalists arrived and ripped apart the door from the walls of a Church. The new doors were installed on February 26 at the Newman Missionary Society Church's building that was being constructed and nearing completion
On February 25, 2105 in Jaipur, the Mansarovar Police station indulged blatantly in the custodial violence of the 20 members from the Hebron Church of Hyderabad who had come to Jaipur. At the behest of the hindutva fundamentalists who hurled abuses and barged into the house in Shanti Nagar, Gurjar ki Thadi, where they were staying, the police carried out this action.They pushed these 20 Christians in 2 jeeps and kicked them and pushed them on reaching the police station. They were made to spread their palms and were hit with a patta, photographs give the evidence of serious injuries on the palms and wrists. At least 6 people were seriously injured including one whose wrist watch was damaged
On February 24 in Pithora, two Christians were arrested after false allegation of conversion was filed agaisnt them. Rev. Nilesan Tandi of the Church of North India and Ps. Asrikh Das of the Believers Church were arrested and were kept under custody.
On February 24, 2015, in Mangalore, the St. Joseph's Church was vandalized at night. Its window panes and door were damaged, though the statues within remained untouched. A report was filed.
On February 22, 2015 in Navelim, Margao, Goa, unidentified miscreants vandalised the statue of Our Lady of Lourdes by breaking the glass casket which was installed on a pedestal near the Holy Cross
On February 22, 2015 in Swaminathapuram, Kanyakumari, fundamentalists objected to the repairs that were being made to the Church. The incident occurred when the New Life Assembly of God Church had begun to repair their Church's roof and a mob came to stop the work. They objected to the Church's presence in the area. A report was filed in the local police station.
Tension prevailed at a village in Bijnor district after a Muslim family was assaulted in the Dhampur police station. A youth of the family had eloped with a Hindu girl. The girl was traced in Jammu and Kashmir, but still the assault continued. Later, a group of armed men came in 3 cars and started beating up the members of the family including women. They also ransacked the house. The youth's cousin has registered a case under Section 452 of IPC. Also, the youth's family and relatives have left the village fearing more attacks.
Jahangir, a 24 year old Muslim youth, was assaulted by 4 Hindu youths over parking issues. While the police got him medically examined, Jahangir was allegedly sent home without being administered proper treatment. He later died. The post-mortem report had stated that Jahangir died of ante-mortem injuries. The police has registered a murder case against the 4 accused people but no arrests have been made.
On 13th February 2015 in Akaltara, Janjgir , Bilaspur, a Church was set on fire by unidentified assailants in the late evening. Rev. Fr. Yeswer Lehre had conducted fasting prayer meeting in the Believers Church from 11am to 3pm. After the prayer meeting got over, Fr. Yeswer locked the church door and went back home. Around 6:30pm he received a call that some unidentified men had broken open the doors of the Church, dragged books, petromax and other articles just outside the Church door and set them to fire. By the time they had rushed and put off the fire, half of the main Church door was also damaged. An FIR was filed but no action was taken until press time.
On Febraury  13 , 2015 in Bhopal,  local fundeamentalists threatened a pastor and asked him to discontinue his Church in the area. Ps. Harikishan Rana has been under continuous threat from the Hindutva fundamentalists in the area. Earlier, on November 4, 2014, the pastor and six chrisitians were attacked by the mob of  over 250 people. They had entered their homes, stripped them naked and stole away goods worth Rs. 2 Lakhs. An FIR was filed Bikhiriya Police Station the same day. The pastor is still receiving continuous threats from the fundamentalists. No action has been taken till press time
On February 12, 2015 at Vasant Vihar, New Delhi, a convent school was vandalized and robbed. School officials say the window of the principal's room was broken by the unknown attackers and Rs.8,000 was reported to be missing
On February 12 in Geedam, the gospel meeting of Evangelist Ravi Abraham for which permissions were already sought, was disrupted and forced to close down. The meeting was arranged by Gospel for Christ Mission from 10-12 February, 2015. The mob attacked the meeting on the third day.
In this case, the Hindu Munnani were arrested for reconverting 4 Christians to Hinduism. When they were questioned, they said that earlier when they converted from Hinduism to Christianity, they faced discrimination and they wanted to go back to Hinduism, so they approached us. Also, they quoted Article 25 of the constitution that they had the freedom to profess, propagate and follow any religion. They were arrested under Section 151 (preventive detention) of CrPC and they were let off within a few hours.
Praveen Togadia gave an inflammatory speech in MB Inter College while addressing Virat Hindu Sammelan. He said that the constitution should be made to cater to a Hindu Rashtra.
The town was tense following the protest by the alleged activists of VHP and Bajrang Dal against slaughter houses. VHP and Bajrang Dal were demanding closure of slaughter houses from the administration and had given an ultimatum. Following this, the district administration had imposed prohibitory orders. However, the alleged activists of the VHP and Bajrang Dal tried to forcibly close down the slaughter house. This resulted in clashes between the two groups.
The pamphlets were thrown by two youths on the streets which had Anti-India Slogans and also mentioned love Jihad. A local resident registered an FIR against the youths, as from his CCTV he saw 2 people throwing the pamphlets. Police has registered the case and now trying to find the culprits. Police has also seized the pamphlets.
On February 2, 2015 in Vasant Kunj, New Delhi, a church was vandalized. According to the members of St. Alphonsa's Church, unidentified people jumped in from the main gate wall and broke opened the main gate of the church at around 3 am. They ransacked the sacristy cupboards, opened the tabernacle, took the ciborium and emptied it by putting the hosts on the table, the church members said.
On February 2, 2015 in Barharwa, Sahibganj, Jharkhand, an agitated crowd of over 1000 people burst into a Christian school premises all on a sudden shouting 'Jai Shri Ram, Beef Eaters go back, we will break your Christian statues' etc. Thereafter, the crowd ran amok stoning, brick-batting, damaging and destroying school and church property. The  Holy Family English Medium School level, is run by the Sisters of the Holy Family Congregation. The immediate provocation to the sudden outburst was a false complaint of a girl child’s mother  being molested by a teacher.  A 4-standard girl alleged that Vincent Kujur who had physically abused her. The statement of the child has not been taken however, the child's guardians have issued a statement against the teacher. When the school had reopened after the school, the children had made New year cards for the teacher Vincent. He in appreciation of the gesture pat the child's back in encouragement. This gesture has been alleged as abuse.
Sadhvi Prachi, the leader of VHP gave a hate speech. She said that it is time for India to be Muslim free. An FIR had been registered against her under section 153A (Promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion), 153B (Imputations, assertions prejudicial to national-integration), 504 and 505 of the IPC.
Hindu extremist groups attacked and vandalized the truck carrying Buffaloes near Mumbai Maharashtra and grabbed the cattle, a slaughterhouse owner shahihd sheikh told the reporter that in spite of having all the necessary documents, these people as well as government authorities regularly harassing the truck drivers carrying cattle for slaughter.
In January 31, 2015 in Hoslkote, Bangalore, Karnataka, Pastor M. P. Samuel was threatened and asked to stop prayer meetings by the local police. He said that he was not able to feel safe since the police themselves were harassing him
Circular issued by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, directing all schools, including Muslim-dominated Urdu medium schools, to perform Saraswati puja for vasant anchami festival, on 24 January 2015 created a tension for minority students.
On January 21 in Tuticorin, Tamil Nadu, Bibles were thrown over the road in front of the Office of the District Collector by the Munnani members. This was an act to incite violence against Christians. A petition is being prepared to be filed by press time
On January 18, 2015 at Chinchwad, Pune, Hindutva fundamentalists came and threatened a community of Christians who were praying together on a Sunday morning in a rented premise. Sister Meeka Londhe from the 'Christ for All' Church and others were threatened saying that they would not be allowed to pray and gather as a Church from the following Sunday. A report was filed at the Chinchwad Police station and the police have assured protection to the Christians.
This incident has taken place after the RSS and VHS leaders gave inflammatory speeches and Hindu's committed violence by attacking the mosque, its Imam, students of madrassa and burning the shops. The Muslims called for a strike, but the strike was not accepted leading to riots. The police has registered the case of riot.  The clashes occurred on Friday night in multiple locations in Belthangady and Puttur talukas when people were returning after attending the Virat Hindu Hridaya Sangama, an event where Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) leader Praveen Togadia and Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) leader Kalladka Prabhakar Bhat allegedly delivered inflammatory speeches.
Communal tension occurred due a fight between a Muslim boy and a group of Hindu youths. The fight led to loss of property and destruction of shops in the locality. Jalgaon SP Dr. Jalinder Supekar said ,
Three persons were killed and at least ten others were injured in the clashes between two communities in and around Hansot town of Bharuch district on 14/01/2015, police said. The clashes began following a scuffle between two groups over catching the kites in nearby Ambeta village during Makarsankranti celebrations. According to local police, the tension started when a boy, belonging to the minority community, was thrashed by a youth for catching the kites in Ambeta village this morning. Soon, clashes also erupted in Hansot. According to police, religious places and shops were targeted.
On January 14 in Vikaspuri, New Delhi,  unidentified miscreants broke the Grotto encasing the statue of Church of our Lady of Graces at 4:18am.  The incident was captured on a CCTV camera where the miscreant was seen smashing the glass pane of the grotto and came back with another to topple the statue of Mary. Both fled immediately.  The damamge was found two hours later and reported to the police.
On January 11 in Jharkhand, Dhanbad, a mob attacked an Independent House Church being conducted in Ps. Subhish Kumar's home during their Worship Service and beat the Christians.  The case was filed against 5 Christians on false accusations of conversion.  The Church was being conducted for the past 2 years.
Communal tension was created in the village Parasauli when a person has put the head of buffalo at the entrance of two mosques and two temples in the same area. It is suspected that the person was not alone in bringing out this crime but was supported by a group of individuals.
In this incident, a local signage of one community was damaged by the other community during the procession and that led to conflict between the 2 communities. Three people were injured but due to the presence of police, the situation was brought under control immediately. Police used 6 tear gas shells to disperse the crowd.
On January 5 in Lait Narayan Mitra, Darbhanga, Bihar, mobs consisting of Hindutva fundamentalists went to homes of 8 Christians who recently were baptized at the Agape Church and threatened them. Agape Church has been serving in the area for the past 6 years but local fundamentalists have been spreading false accusations about the Church in the area as well. A notice was filed at the local Police Station informing about miscreants who have been spreading rumors.
A Christmas crib on side the Church compound of Church of the Resurrection, Sector-6, Rohini, Delhi was found burnt and damaged. Though the police suspected it to be a case of short circuiting, the second camera of the CCTV showed inflammable substance being thrown into crib from above around 2:30 am.  The Parishioners also suspect the use of inflammable material to set fire as it was raining in the area during the night and morning
In this incident, the Hindutva group has called for forced conversion of Muslims to Hindus, who had converted to Islam from Hinduism some years back. This was done for over 3000 Muslims. The state has issued an alert to prevent forced conversion but still the Dharm Jagran cell has called for another ghar wapsi.
A disagreement between people spread the rumor of cow slaughter which turned into communal clashes. A curfew had to be enforced in order to control the situation. People reacted to the situation without ascertaining the facts which had harmful consequences. 5 roadside vendors and a shop were set on fire while the perpetrator is yet to be found.
Dalit families that recently converted to Christianity have asked for police protection as they are receiving various threats from the Hindu right-wing groups. the converts have accused VHP, the RSS  and Bajrang dal for threatening and intimidating them. they have also been warned that they will be deprived of all the government schemes and benefits if they didn't back to the Hindu fold.
Members of Hindu Yuva Vahini and the police disrupted a Christian worship service at Salempur, Deoria district, Uttar Pradesh. Jaswant Masih and his wife Suman, who have been conducting prayer services for many years in their own home, were arrested and taken to the police station following complains by the Hindu groups that the couple were involved in forcible conversions. Later, Police, denied any incident of conversion
Hindu extremist groups forcibly took two Catholic missionaries to police station after disrupting an inter-faith meeting organized at the Geeta Bhavan, Indore, Madhya Pradesh. The activists of Bajrang Dal and Dharma Jagran Manch accused Father Prasad and Brother Sleeva of trying to convert Hindus to Christianity. They demanded that the police arrest the missionaries, after registering a First Information Report against them. The missionaries were however, let off as charges against them proved to be frivolous. The next day the Hindu groups proceeded to purify Geeta Bhavan by pouring milk and cow urine on the place where the missionaries had been participating in the interfaith meeting.
Ten Christians along with 3 children aged 4 months, 4 years and 7 years were taken into judicial custody on December 28, 2014 at Sukta Dam Colony, Khandwa, Madhya Pradesh. The Christians had gone to celebrate at the village in response to the invite of local Christian Shyamlal who wanted them to celebrate Christmas with them. Soon they were ambushed by Hindutva Activists and took refuge in a nearby hut. A mob gathered outside the hut towards which stones were pelted at, with the intention of injuring the Christians. Soon the Police arrived and charged the Christians under Section 295A for insulting religious sentiments and sent them to Judicial custody. They were granted bail on December 31, 2014.
More than 25 members of the Youth wing of the BJP and other Hindu groups stormed into the Sam Higginbottom University alleging conversions. The attackers tore banners with Bible verses written on them, shouted anti-Christian slogans, burnt the effigy of the vice chancellor of the University, Dr. R B Lall, and entered into a fight with the security personnel. Two of them were caught and handed over to the police.
BJP leaders and Bajrang Dal people threatened Pastor Ramchand from Amethi, Uttar Pradesh of dire consequences if he carries on with worship services in the area. The pastor left the village keeping in mind his own security and has approached the local police for protection.
Police arrested Pastor Ashok Prajapati from Varanasi following allegations of forcible conversions. According to reports, Hindu groups as well as the police threatened him and asked him to stop holding prayer meetings in the area. He was released in the evening the same day.
In this incident, the Christians were converted into Hindus and a temple was being constructed next to the church by those converted Hindus. They said that there was no dispute on the temple being constructed there. On the eve of Christmas there was no celebration, as every time it used to take place. One of the reasons mentioned was that there were very less Christians left and the other one was that there was hidden fear among the Christians. There was no festive feel around the church or the street down there.
In Bhagwanpur Qasba Communal tension erupted after vandalization of religious places and molestation. Hindi Hindustan.
Hindu Yuva Vahini, a hindu youth group has warned Christian priests from holding any religious function outside churches. they claimed that these ceremonies lure people to convert and embrace Christianity.they added that the group has already scuttled many such programmes that were to be held on christmas day.
A Christian couple was taken into custody under the state’s anti-conversion law from Nayanagar village, about 28 kms from district headquarters Khargone. D. Wilson and his wife Rashmita Wilson planned a Christmas programme on 23rd evening, but couldn’t carry out the programme because the police did not grant permission.  However, they visited a village, namely, Nayanagar on 24th December on the invitation of local Christians. After reaching the village, they found out that around 70 believers had gathered in a house for a fellowship meeting. Unexpectedly, four persons Hindutva fundamentalists arrived with the police and took them to Gogawa police station, which is 9 kms away from Nayanagar.  By then, a big mob had mobilized themselves in front of the police station demanding the arrest of the missionaries. They also prepared two false witnesses who confessed that each of them were promised Rs.5000/- by the couple to convert into Christianity. The Superintendent of Police also interrogated the missionary couple.  An FIR was filed under Sections 295 and 506 of the IPC and Section 3 of M.P Freedom of Religion Act
OnDecember 24, 2014,  Pr. Akash Sisodia was forcefully taken from his house to the Police by Hindutva Activists on false allegations of conversions. Ps. Akash was conducting a meeting in his house at Pratapnagar, Pavasa. Around 150 Hindutva activists surrounded his house and took Pr. Akash to Chimanganj Mandi police station in Ujjain. They also and locked his house leaving his wife and children outside. They then took pictures of Christian literature which was already with them and filed false details of photo along with a note that the pastor was caught while converting people in his house, which was absolutely false
Oct. 23, 2014 Chagona village Narkatia ganj, Bihar There was an ongoing dispute on the graveyard for about an year, when it escalated majority community closed the way trough which Muslims used to enter there part of the settlement within the village. This led to communal tension, pelting of stones and firing. Inquilab, Patna
Communal violence broke out in Raisen district of Madhya Pradesh after rumours of cow slaughter spread in the area. Carts, vehicles and other shops were set on fire. The additional police force was appointed in the area and after imposition of curfew, the situation came under control.
Seven people including two pastors were arrested on Christmas day from Urai, Raibareily and Kushinagar areas of Uttar Pradesh. The Christians were arrested on after BJP members complained of forcible conversions. However according to media reports no such conversions could be verified
It is being claimed that Muslim Soldiers in the Army are being pressurized to shave their beards. There have been instances which have pointed towards the situation and this has created a sense of insecurity among the forces. It has to be noted that Muslim officers have the right to keep their beards as per the regulation 425 (B).
Hindu extremists disrupted a Christian prayer meeting and beat up Christians in Varanasi on December 19, 2014. Pastor Shobhnath and local Christians were participating in prayer and fasting in a village in Chiraigaon Block, Varanasi, when 10-12 people came in a Bolero (SUV), entered the house forcefully, and started beating the Christians. They took away the Bible and other literature and also destroyed household furniture. According to local sources, the attackers are office bearers of RSS and BJP. The matter was reported to the local police.
On 19 December in Ratlam, police booked  and arrested Pastor Jose Mathews after the Bajrang Dal stormed a Christian convention alleging forceful conversions on 12 December and forced the organisers to cancel the meeting. Pastor Mathew was later released on bail
On 18 Dec in Bhagalpur, three Christians who had recently  accepted  Christ were forced to reconvert to Hinduism. According to media reports, the three converts returned to the Hindu fold after they were threatened with a social boycott.
Marriage lawn owners in Bulanshahr would not let Muslims hold any functions on their properties because they 'refuse to pay' and 'leave the venues dirty'. Marriage lawn owners said their decision was driven by business and not politics.
Pastor Amit Kumar S/o Shiv Charan Nabipur Village, Parshurampur PO, Piparaich Thana, Gorakhpur along with 15 others were detained by police and their belongings confiscated while they were celebrating Christmas.  Ps. Amit was arrested while others were let go of after being kept in custody for more than 20 hours. They were falsely accused by Hindu groups of indulging in forced conversion. The 15 persons who were let go off were Priya, Ruby, Sharadha, Nirmala, Umesh Kumar, Amit, Raja, Shivchand, Rangi lal, Amerjit, Sharju, Babloo, Angadh, Prakesh, and Govind.
Pastor Mahendra Kumar from Behraich, Uttar Pradesh was arrested and kept in custody for two days before being released without any charges. He was arrested following complaints of local Hindu groups. The Hindu groups are also targeting a Christian social service organization working in the area, according to local reports
A false case against Ps. Jose Matthews was registered on December 12, 2014 on the complaints of Hindutva organizations, which alleged that he was conducting a function at Lions Hall, Ratlam to convert tribals to Christianity. Police after their investigations reported that all allegations were false and was later released on bail. The Hindutva activists stormed a Christian meeting organized by the Indian Pentecostal Church of God along with the media and the police forcing the organizers to cancel the meeting. The organizers and the speakers of the meeting were taken to the police station but were later released as well.
Building of a boundry wall of a graveyard started majority people broke pillar at night and buried yellow flag. They also protested at many place.  Police confiscated the flag & tried to maintain peace. Inquilab, Patna
Dec. 9, 2014    Bharuch, Gujarat, Sunil Patel, alias Sajan of Ambheta circulated a message on Whatsapp about Prophet Mohammad and Muslims using abusive pornographic language; This message created communal tension in the city. PUCL, Vadodara
Sunil Patel alias Sajan circulated a message on Whatsapp about Prophet Mohammad and Muslims using abusive, pornographic language. It led to protests by Muslims. The leaders of the Muslim community gave a call for Hansot Bandh (shut down). The police arrested Sajan Mansukhbhai Patel who circulated this message. This incident stirred up the area and consequently, many other incidents started taking place.
At Karsevakpuram, a booklet titled 'Hindu', with the warning in bold letters
Stones were thrown at a Syro-Malabar Catholic Church at Jasola in Okhla when Saturday mass was being conducted around 6.45 p.m. Although no one was injured, windowpanes on the first floor of the church were shattered. Panicked participants of the mass rushed out in alarm.
Ram Sena members demolished the wall of a mosque, which led to the eruption of communal tension and subsequently more than dozens of shops were looted and burnt by these groups.
On 2 December in Tawang District, govt officials stopped the construction of Baptist Church and thereafter not did not produce any reason for disallowing the Christians to build the church. (Ref: Page no. 143 of the report) Click the link given
A substantial part of the St. Sebastian Catholic Church in Dilshad Garden, Delhi was gutted when a fire broke out at its premises at 6:30 am. The Christian community suspected foul play in the incident. Police have registered a case under section 436 IPC (Mischief) on the complaint of the church authorities.
On 30 November in Basinha, Annupur, Hindu extremists barged into the church meeting of Masih Kalishya and threatened Pastor Gopal Dhurve and church members with harm if they continue to worship meetings in the area.
A dispute started In Gir Somnath district on Monday over the trivial issue of picking up passengers by two auto-rickshaw drivers, one of them being a Muslim and another Hindu. The incident took a serious turn with both communities coming to the aid of the driver belonging to their respective communities.
Ahmedabad, 27 Nov 2014: Communal incidents targeting Muslims have come to visit Gujarat again. Since May this year when former chief minister Narendra Modi shifted to the national capital as country’s prime minister, more than a dozen incidents involving severe attacks on Muslims at different places in the state have taken place. Though no major loss of life except a few deaths in Vadodara and Ahmedabad were reported, Muslims suffered huge loss of property. A scuffle over the trivial issue of picking up passengers by two auto-rickshaw drivers, one of them being a Muslim and another Hindu resulted in communal tension in the area.The incident took a serious turn with both communities coming to the aid of the driver belonging to their respective communities. Police had to fire teargas shells to control the violence. Later, over 50 persons picked up by the police during home combing operation happened to be Muslims giving an impression as if only the Muslims were responsible for the incident. Earlier in September, a number of violent incidents targeting Muslims had been reported from Vadodara, Ahmedabad and other places following a call to ban entry of Muslims in “garba dances” during Navratri festival.
On 26th Nov 2014, the leaders of the Moran Amguri, Sivasagar District sent a message to a pastor serving with the Believers Church that he must shift from the building where the Church gathers, within a month. Although this land is donated by someone from the Christian community, the land document is with his father who is influenced by Hindutva.
Tension gripped entire Surat when BJP, VHP and RSS took out rallies and held demonstration in Muslim dominated Rander area of Surat city over an  alleged incident of gang-rape of a Hindu woman. But the police probe found that the complaint was false and the complainant filed FIR under pressure from her husband allegedly linked to RSS.
On 23 Novemeber in Wanaparthy, Mahabubnagar, Hindu extremists shouting Hindu slogans disrupted the  Sunday worship meeting of Gethsemane Prardhana Mandiram conducted by Pastor R. Joshua.
On 23 November in Appampally, Mahabubnagar, Hindu extremists shouting slogans  barged into the birthday celebration of a Christian and threatened to kill the pastor and warned him not to enter the village again. The believers were able to hide the pastor.
An SHO of the local area went into a moqsue and removed its loudspeaker while damaging its mic and sound system. When the Imam and other people who came to pray protested, he locked the mosque and in a mocking manner said that those who wanted to pray had to take the key from him. ADG Nikil Goel, on being informed of the same had the speaker installed back and made sure that the people got to pray. He promised the Rashtriya Ulama Council of strict action as soon as possible.
Police arrested a couple in the dead of the night and unlawfully detained them. This is due to the fact that the wife was a Hindu in the past and she later reverted to Islam in order to marry Mohammed Nazim. The woman's family were aware of them and had no issue with the change of faith. The Police pressurized the family to file a case of kidnapping and then tortured the wife to give a false testimony in court.
Two madrasa students were first asked their name as soon as they reveal their Muslim name, the alleged perpetrators started beating them up when travelling in a taxi. A Police complaint has been made but no progress has been made in the same. The students and teachers have expressed their anger in the issue and have asked the Police to speed up their process.
A small clash among Hindus and Muslims during the Mahaviri Jhanda procession in Bokhara village turned violent when Police instead of controlling law and order situation in the area the Police started lathi-charging on targeted Muslim dominated locality and also went to the extent of bashing up the people who had come to pray Asr prayer along with the Imam. Those who had no connection with the incident were also badly beaten up leading to many people being badly injured. The people of the area are blaming the Police for the situation. Additional forces have been deployed and declared Sec 144(curfew).
Yogi was at the center of another controversy when he made statements against Muslims blaming various parts of Islam and its structure for spreading fear and planning to finish the Hindu ideology. He also blamed Hindus for participating in festivals other than those in Hinduism as they would weaken the community and the individual or group doing so is a shame for the rest of the community. He also called Madrasas a preparation for spreading fear as their students would later on go to enemy nations to get training in combat and the spread tensions all over the World.
On 16 Nov in Ram Nagar, Rajnandgoan,Chhattisgarh,  at about 11 a.m. Hindu extremists from the VHP and the Bajrang Dal barged into the Sunday worship meeting of Masihi Aradhana Church conducted  and asked for  the pastor Sunil Gottlieb. The church members hid the pastor and then asked the intruders what they want. The extremists then started beating the church members and injured one church member who sustained serious head injuries and received treatment in the hospital . The church members  went to the police station ad reported the matter. The police registered an FIR against the attackers. Police protection is provided to the Christians.
A Christian community in Udumalpet, located in India's Tamil Nadu state, was attacked by a mob of over 100 Hindu radicals during a prayer service on November 16. According to reports, the mob beat the Christians attending the prayer service at Konkal Marthoma Church, burned more than 20 vehicles owned by Christians, desecrated Bibles, burned the church's alter and destroyed musical instruments. Attackers even followed some of the Christians to the hospital threatening to attack them a second time.
wo girls were beaten up by Hindutva fundamentalists for attending the prayer meeting at Mennonite Brethren Church in Narayanpet on 15th November 2014. The mob went into the house of Saritha and Laxmi, aged 17 and started beating them. They started throwing the house hold things out of the house, and tore the Bibles found in the house. They then warned the families of both Saritha and Laxmi not to go to Church
A man was shot down for interfering and stopping another person from getting harassed. The assailant is known by the name of Sanjeev and has a troubled record with the Police. He has also been known for troubling fruit and vegetable sellers who are Muslims and harasses them, asking them to leave the area. This shooting of Syed Muneer has created a tenison in the area and additional forces are on standby.
Riot in Palwal, New Delhi (Haryana)The rioters burnt the area of Hatin, Palwal and looted the minorities. The rioters thrashed the door of a mosque in the Palwal area of NCR and showed the disgust against the people of the minorities. They burnt the houses and shops of the minorities of the area. The Hindu association
Dalits and Muslims clashed in Sonata village of Shamli district over sharing water from a hand-pump. The Dalits alleged that they were prevented from using the hand-pump in the village. Earlier, they had used another handpump but they had no alternative when that handpump broke down. This lead to the communal tension in the area. At least six houses of each community were set on fire by the rioters.
An ordinary disagreement was given a communal color. The Police was informed in the wrong manner and those involved have cases registered against them. This was an attempt to disturb peace and create chaos.
In a weekly Tuesday market in Khichripur of New Delhi, rumours of cow slaughter created tensions due to which the market had to be shut. Police arrived timely and closed the market. After the rumours had spread, Hindus of the locality started misbehaving, verbally abusing and bashing the Muslim residents. 20 Muslim men have been arrested in the case while further investigations are awaited.
Anti-social element broke the idol of Hanuman leading to communal tension. Majority community blames the minority for action
Dispute between construction of a small conduit on the road in Tigari Village of Muzaffarnagar distirict in Uttar Pradesh flared up both the communities. One household had a ramp from street to his house, when the drain was being constructed he requested the constructor to construct drain in a way so that his ramp was not harmed on which the other household objected leading to quarrel between two communities. Panchayat was also held that resolved the issue but again they started fighting  during which a gun shot was fired leaving one dead, and 4 injured.
A Christian was detained and later arrested on allegations of forced conversions in Indore on November 7, 2014. According to local sources, Hindutva activists came to the house where the Christian C.M. Mathew had gathered with his friends and relatives at his home. They first threw 30 cross necklaces inside the house and then stormed inside alleging forced conversions. They then filed a police complaint saying that he was trying to convert people by force and asking them to put crosses on themselves. The Christian was detained for over four hours at the Chandan Nagar Police Station post the incident and was released later.
Swine carcases were found in Ghausia Masjid of Madanpur Khadar of South-East Delhi creating a tense environment. It was noted that the Hindus and Muslims of the area, together filed a Police complaint and have been taking all measures to stop any violence from taking place. The Police appreciated their efforts and promised to reach the perpetrator swiftly.
In Aurangabad during Moharram miscreants desecrated some religious syumbols leading to communal tension. Hindi Hindustan Patna edition
Some perople hurled crackers on a religious procession Nimrani village in Khargone district of Madhya Pradesh, causing those part of procession setting ablaze 3 shops. Then both groups attacked each other with sword and other arms leaving 14 injured out of which 7 critical.
Clashes broke out over the passage of a Taziya procession in Saidpur village in the limits of Bithri Chainpur Police Station of Bareilly District. The procession had taken a route other than the one specified. Clashes broke out when during a heated discussion someone threw a stone which was followed by extreme stone pelting and firing. Additional forces were deployed by the Police to bring the situation under control. The surroundings were badly damaged due to the stone throwing and there were attempts to burn hiding people alive. The Taziya procession was then taken out under Police protection. Later on, the Police became aggressive and started arresting those hiding in the vicinity and may have been the perpetrators.
In village Anandpur, Bhagalpur trouble occured during Moharram procession. A violent conflict took place betweeen two groups and one women got njured in stone pelting. Hindi Hindustan Patna edition
On Tuesday, 4th of November, a pastor along with 6 others from Mumbai were arrested in Bhopal on false allegations of conversion. The Bajrang Dal activists attacked the 7 Christians, removed their clothes and beat them up mercilessly on their backs and punched their stomachs with their fists. They also used belts to whack them with. The police from Bilkhiriya Police Station then arrested the Christians
In Bawana, Delhi Muslims were taking out their Muharram Procession inside the Muslim dominated JJ Colony due to the fear of the violence. According to the shopkeeper in the main Bawana village who belong to Jat community says if 'Taziya' is going to the main Village or Market there will be bloodshed. And,  he takes signs of their Muslim neighbour for not to participate in the 'Taziya'. According to theMehfooz Alam, a resident of JJ Colony,
Nov. 3, 2014 Gawnpura, Phulwari Patna. Bihar. Stones were thrown on Moharram procession leading to tension. The issue of suryamahal graveyard has been in the centre of conflict for a few months leading to communal tension. Police played a partisan role. Inquilab, Patna.
About 30 Christians, including women and children were beaten up mercilessly during Sunday Worship  on November 2, 2014 by a mob of 20 Hindutva activists in the Sangli, Barwani District. They were beaten with iron rods and sticks and no one was spared. The Hindutva activists beat all the members including children and women. Most of the Christians sustained injuries. Two men and two women are still admitted in the hospital with severe injuries. This was the same Church from where two Christians were arrested on the previous Monday, October 27, 2014.  Reports have been filed
Governor Aziz Qureshi during a speech said that those involved in slaughtering cows aren't Indian. His statement has drawn backlash with people from the Muslim community asking for a hefty explanation. His statement comes at a time when the country is going through a turbulent time with reference to such situations and these words only add oil to the fire.
Oct.31, 2014  Sakhrana, Motihari, Bihar: A statue near Chhath Puja ghat was broken by some miscreants leading to communal tension.
Oct.30, 2014 Hardoi ,UP Communal Conflict over use of Loudspeaker. Hindi Hindustan.
Four Christians from two families – 70-year-old Govind Janu Galat, Gulab Govind Galat, Dilip Laxu Galat and Sakaram Govind Galat were beaten up after the Diwali Celebrations in Kamsheth Village of Peth Taluka, Nashik on October 28, 2014. All villagers were earlier asked to contribute Rs. 300/- per family as Diwali Celebration contribution out of which it was agreed that four Christian families would pay Rs. 150  and it was later collected as well. On Thursday the 28th October 2014 evening after the Diwali Celebration the four Christian men were called and the Rs.150/- contributed was returned and then collected back. The villagers gathered and starting beating the Christians. While 3 of them escaped, one of them was beaten badly and even stoned. They then attacked the homes of two Christians and stoned the house destroying most of its tiled roofs. Their families escaped and hid in the nearby forests fearing their safety. Police personnel from the Harsul Police Station protected and attempted to bring the Christians back in to the village at night, but the police were also attacked this time as the mob took the advantage of the darkness at night.  The police now has registered a case against the Christians themselves for assault of police
Ashok Pratap and Kallu Rai Singh were arrested on October 27, 2014 on false allegations of forced conversions in Sangli, Barwani Distrist. The Christians had attended a fasting prayer on Sunday, October 26, 2014 after which local Hindutva activists filed a complaint against them. The police from Thikri Police Station arrested the Christians the next day and transferred them to Central Jail. They were granted bail  after three days
Christians were attacked by a group of Hindutva fundamentalists at Ittigehalli Camp in Shimoga District on Monday, 27th October at 7.30 p.m. when they were participating in their daily evening prayers. The culprits broke open the door and forced themselves into the house and also destroyed household articles and Christian literature including the bibles in addition to physical attacking them
The communal clashes between the Hindus and Muslims which took place in Trilokpuri were mainly due to the retaliation faced by Hindus against celebrating Navaratri.
Hindu extremists in Odisha state on Oct. 25 summoned a Christian family to a public meeting for a compromise on religious conflict but instead beat them nearly unconscious. A Christian and four members of his family received hospital treatment for eight days after the attack, which came 10 days after nearly all the villagers from Gumkaguda, Malkangiri beat them for refusing to renounce Christ.The Hindu extremists who summoned the Christian family to the compromise meeting told them they were not to talk and to promise to do whatever they were asked to do. Soon after the meeting started at noon, with Christian leaders and village officials present, the Hindu extremists attacked the Christian, his wife and three sons.
After the controversial gram sabha resolutions banning non-Hindu religious activity in villages in tribal Bastar, there was fresh tension in Madota village after local Christians were assaulted allegedly by right-wing activists, leaving 12 people injured late on Saturday. Eleven of the injured are still undergoing treatment at a hospital in Jagdalpur. According to local reports, an announcement was made through drum beats that residents of Kotwar village should assemble at 9am on Saturday to meet the sub-divisional magistrate, deputy superintendent of police and town inspector to discuss ways to douse tension between the two communities. They waited till evening, but nobody turned up. By evening, right-wing activists came in a truck and attacked Christians, accusing them of promoting religious conversion.
A Christian was attacked and brutally beaten by three of his brothers at Tokapal Block, Jagdalpur on Monday, October 20, 2014. The incident took place when Mukesh (name changed), aged 52 was beaten up by three of his brothers for being a Christian. The brothers were coached into attacking their own brother by Hindutva fundamentalists. He was severely injured and was taken to the hospital where he remained unconscious for over 24 hours. He gained his consciousness on October 21, 2014 at around 8:30pm but was not able to talk.
Hindutva fundamentalists attacked men, women and children at the Church Service in Madota, Jagdalpur on Sunday, October 19, 2014. The incident occurred when a mob of over 30 people gathered outside the Church and shouted slogans to stop the service. 5 people among the mob then entered the Church and started beating the 30 Christians who had gathered for worship. They then went to the handpump outside the Church, put a picture of the Hindu God Hanuman and banned Christians from taking water from the hand pump. A complaint has been filed by Christians
A mob of 25 Hindutva fundamentalists attacked a Church Service at Farasgaon and started beating up the Christians present at the Sunday Worship on October 19, 2014. A compliant was lodged
Oct. 18, 2014 Baghpat, UP Communal Conflict took place between two Communities over use of loudspeaker
On October 18 in Ankola, Uttara Kannada, police officials verbally instructed Pastor Ravi from the Jeevana Jyothi Prathana Mandira that he should stop his Christian activity of visiting homes, preaching and continue it privately. He was asked to to remove the board of the Church and also prohibited from conducting any kinds of public meetings.
On October 18, 2014, Bajrang Dal activists  assaulted a Christian and snatched away his mobile phone and Bicycle at at Bhimpur, Bhezahi Taluk, Betul District.  Later they took him to Bhimpur Police and he has been under illegal custody at Bhimpur Police Station
On 18 Dec in Bhagalpur, three Christians who had recently  accepted  Christ were forced to reconvert to Hinduism. According to media reports, the three converts returned to the Hindu fold after they were threatened with a social boycott.
On 16 November in Tadiparthy, Mahabubnagar, Hindu extremists stopped pastor Isaac from the Mennonite Brethen Church and told him not to stop conducting Christian meetings in the area
15 Ocober in Gumkaguda, Malkangiri, Hindu extremists burned down the house of one Christian family, Irma Markami at midnight and beat them up because of their faith in Christ
20-year Madarsa teacher who previously alleged that she was abducted, gang-raped and then forcefully converted now says that her family cooked up the whole story. She eloped with her man love who was a Muslim. She also alleges that she is in threat with her own family as she refuses to accept her inter-communal relationship.
Instance of a manufactured rumor being spread that beef had been kept in a bag near the local temple. This caused a huge crowd to arrive at the scene blocking NH 31 in the process. This situation caused a lot of trouble to the Muslim minority in the area. Later on, the crowd turned hostile and burned down 7 houses along with livestock. Police arrived at the scene and imposed a curfew. The Superintendent of Police, Mohammed Raza promised to catch hold of the perpetrators.
Anti- social elements placed some material in a religious place leading to communal tension and burning of a truck on NH31
Communal tensions flared up in Kishanganj, Bihar following rumors of a severed cow head being found at a temple across the town. Hindus from various parts of the town, which has a mixture of Hindu-Muslim population, were seen burning tyres. They also blocked NH31 in protest. The protestors later burnt down scooters and tried to damage vehicles, which prompted the administration to impose section144 in certain sections of the town.
A prayer meeting organized by India Christians Revival Mission (ICRM) praying for safety from the Hudhud cyclone was attacked by Hindu fundamentalists on October 11, 2014 at 7:00 pm. The prayer meetings were scheduled for three days, that is, 10-12 October 2014. After the meetings were conducted smoothly for one and half days, some Hindu Activists came to the venue of the meeting- Junagarh townhall, asking about the program. They then returned at 7:00 pm with a mob and stopped the meeting.
Oct.10, 2014 Saharanpur UP Molestation of a girl led to communal tension in the area. Hindi Hindustan
On October 19 In Trikaripur, Kasaragod,  anti- Christian people forcefully entered  into the House Church meeting conducted by Pastor Johnson James ,destroyed furniture ,manhandled, pushed and slapped the Christians
BJP MLA of Meerut Cantt Satya Prakash Aggarwal given a controversial statement against the Muslim community in a seminar organised by Employees Union of Meerut Cantt.
Oct. 8, 2014 Gopalganj Bihar: Crowds returning after immersing idols, vandalized Muslim shops. Altercation started between two communities leading to communal tension.
Rumour were spread that minority community was planning cow slaughter in bakrid Maioritv communitv protested although later it came out that it was rumour.
Communal tension spread in Kishanganj after rumors of cow slaughter. It was later said that pieces of cow meat were thrown inside the premises of a temple after which anti-social elements created a tense environment. Police arrested 7 people in relation to this case and imposed curfew. Political leaders of different parties marched for peace and appealed to people of the community to maintain the same.
On 8 Oct  in Wanaparthy, Mahabubhanagar, Hindu extremists disrupted the prayer meeting conducted by Pastor Maairiappa, told him to stop conducting meetings in future and filed a police complaint against him of forceful conversion.
Acting on a tip off regarding cow slaughter, Navsari police, along with gaurakshaks associated with the VHP reached Navi Nagri street in Dabhel village and caught a youth carrying mutton packed in gunny bags who was on his way to deliver it. The villagers got angry with the police action and pelted stones on police jeep. They also rescued the youth from the police captivity. In retaliation, the police fired three rounds at the mob. Three police officers and two Muslims got injured.
On 7 October, Nireekshana Mandiram (Temple of Hope) Church was set on fire by unknown assailants in early hours in Hyderabad, Telangana state. At about 3.30 am, a family living next to the Nireekshana Mandiram Church (in a temporary shed made of bamboo mats) noticed huge smoke and a fire. By the time the family realized what was going on, half of the Church was burnt
Some people of majority community teased a muslim girl. When it was  opposed by some people from the Muslim community they were beaten up. It led to communal tension. Hindi Hindustan, Patna edition.
Fight between kids took a communal turn when their parents got involved. This was followed by another fight at a procession of the local goddess during which a lady suffering from high-blood pressure passed away. She wasn't able to make it to the hospital on time and died in the vehicle and her death is being claimed as natural. The fight between kids was not a communal issue as they were playing but when the parents got involved, things got ugly.
Oct. 5, 2014  Khagodh village Siwan, Bihar  When some people went to burn pyre on the land of graveyard this led to tension. Police beat the people of minority community and fired bullet in air. By the court order that piece of land belonged to graveyard. Hindi Hindustan, Patna edition.
On Oct 5 in Valanchery, Malappuran, Hindu extremists barged into the Sunday worship meeting of Indian Pentecostal Church and beat up the pastor and believers. About 20 extremists forcefully entered the worship hall of IPC, accused the Pastor  Francis and the church members of forceful conversion and beat them up. The extremists slapped, pushed, kicked and beat up the pastor and tore up his clothes and threatened to blast the church with a bomb on the next Sunday. The Christians filed a police complaint.
About 10 FMPB members were praying in a believer's house when about 50 extremists massed up saying that they do not allow Christians to pray in the area and summoned the pastor to come out from the meeting. Pastor R. Sathyappa, local worker Nandu Rathod and other believers came out from the house after the prayer when the extremists asked them,
A Church was set on fire by unidentified people in Mandla district, 466km east from Bhopal. The incident occurred at Ghutas in the rural part of the district. Local residents said that Billiards Church, which is situated amidst a field in a rural area, was burnt. The church was badly damaged in the incident. By the time local residents could reach the spot, furniture and goods were charred. Sources said that unidentified people had barged inside after breaking a lock and set fire to the Church.
A Church was burnt down at Hiriyur, about 50 kms away from Chitradurga District on September 25, 2014 at 10:00 pm. The Prayer Hall was set on fire because of which Bibles, and other materials were gutted down. Report was filed the next day
On 25 September in Bhisakata,Kanker, the Hindu extremists ostracized seven Christian families from Full Gospel Ministry after they refused to renounced Christ
Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) banned Muslims from participating in Garba festival, which is celebrated during the 9 days of navratri. A team of specially floated body called the Hindu Asmita Hitrakshak Samiti has created an army of volunteers to ensure no Muslims are allowed inside Garba venues.
Sep. 21, 2014   Lucknow, UP ABVP announces formation of vigilante groups in all major student campuses to
Sep. 21, 2014   Dewa Sharif, UP A truck carrying Muslim devotees going to Dewa Sharief was stopped by BJP leader and his supporters near Hanuman Mandir, they were chasing the truck for sometime. Devotees including women and children were attacked with sticks, they misbehaved with women and even took away their jewellery. Driver lodged a complaint with the police against Gulab Singh, Raj Kumar Singh, Gaurav Singh,Vivek Singh & othr but noi action was taken.
A false case was registered against a pastor after he and his family members were assaulted by RSS activists on September 21, 2014. They trespassed into his house and also damaged the cars parked in the compund of his house. The Rajakkamangalam Police later arrested the pastor and another Christian
On September 21, 2014, Pastor Immanuel (45) along with other Church members were beaten by Hindu fundamentalists in Manjunath Nagar,  Yellaur, Karwar District. The Church which was established in 1999 was attacked during the Sunday worship service by 13 fundamentalists. They also beat the Church's house owner Narayan Manakwad, his wife and his children.  Later, a false allegations of forced conversion was filed against the Pastor at the Yellarpur Police Station
A girl claims that the Muslim youth was harassing her and threatening her with an acid attack and was forcing her to convert and later solemnise nikah with him. The members of Dharma Jagran Sena claim to have been called by the girl. They assaulted the man and then took him to a police station. Police has charged him with attempt to outrage modesty and criminal intimidation.
After BJP MLA calls for a ban over Muslim men in Garba programs in Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh. She attached this matter with the issue of
Sep. 18, 2014 Aligarh, UP .Six BJP Yuva Morcha leaders along with 40 party activists booked for allegedly assaulting a 24-year-old man, who intended to marry a girl from a different community
A 24 year old man was assaulted by 6 BJP Yuva Morcha Leaders because he intended to marry a girl from a different community. He had come to meet his woman friend and her parents apparently over marriage plan and the party workers took it as a case of
A Professor of MA English in Delhi University made inciting comments about Muslims wherein she accused them of wrongdoings. The Professor said,
Tibetan students had asked for police permission for peaceful protests during the state visit of the Chinese President. After permission was granted, they were kept under police observation in their university guest house. The NHRC says that the police has failed to provide proper reasons for the detention.
Sep. 16, 2014 Baka, Bihar VHP and ABVP jointly call a bandh in Banka aganist the 'Love Jihad' The ABVP and VHP workers forced shut the shops and indulged in arson. Police arrested 33 people who were indulging in arson. Hindi Hindustan, Patna edition.
Swine flesh was thrown by 3 people in a mosque attempting to ignite communal tensions. The incident took place after Isha prayers when the madrasa students were going through their routine. The students and the teachers caught the perpetrators when they tried running away. When questioned by the Madrasa officials, they lied about their identities after which the Police arrived and they were handed over. The Police has arrested all 3 of them and has promised to reach the root of the problem. On further investigation it was also discovered that the 3 of them had been paid to do such an act and weren't willing to reveal the kingpin. This is a wild attempt to create communal tensions between communities and has to be seriously dealt with.
Sep. 15, 2014 Qazipur P.S. Mozafferpur, Bihar A girl eloped with a Muslim boy. An FIR of kidnapping was registered. The girl gave a statement that she had gone with him of her own free will. Tension prevailed in the town. Inquilab, Patna
On Sep. 15, 2014, Sakshi Maharaj gave a speech in an event took place in Kannauj in which he alleged madarsas being institutions which teach
About 30 Christians of the Madota Village, Bastar District are being harrassed for over a week by Hindu fundamentalists. On September 15, 2014, Pastor Sinju Das was beaten up the fundamentalists  and was threatened to never conduct prayer meetings at the Christian Prayer Hall in the village. The believers have been facing continuous threats to their life from the village members as well and are being forced to reconvert to Hinduism.
Sep. 14, 2014 Aligarh, UP .  A girl on her way to college was allegedly accosted and molested by three boys of another community. The incident led to communal tension.
A mob of over 150 Hindu fundamentalists attacked and beat up about 50 Christians at a prayer gathering on September 14, 2014 at Bindhani Village, Ranchi. They chased Shrimati Katrina Khujur who was living at the house where the prayer meeting was being held and beat her brutally. She had run into the nearby lake to escape from the mob, but the mob followed her into the lake and beat her. They took her identity cards and her only savings from her home. Her face was severely injured. Though she lodged a complaint with the police, she was pressurized by the villagers to take her complaint back and huge mobs protested arrests outside the local police station.
Hindu Fundamentalists threatened Christians attending the Indian Pentecostal Church at Kattekalyan  to convert back to Hinduism on September 13, 2014. The believers have been receiving threats very often for the past one month. When the fundamentalisits had come to speak to Christians on Saturday, they verbally abused the villagers and threatened them for not converting back to Hinduism. The verbal attack was interuppted when the Police saw the altercation and calmed down the mob of about 20 persons. Two years back, Ps. Gigi Paul was beaten by the fundamentalists for conducting the services at the village
On 13th of September, 2014, five students of theology were held captive by villagers at Bindhani Village, Itki, Ranchi. They were caught with Christian literature and New Testament Bibles by villagers who had also gathered from the neighbouring villages. Some of the villagers kicked and punched them and also brutally attacked them with cricket stumps and bats. They threatened them to stop preaching Christianity and asked them to never come back to the village. When the Police was informed about the same, they rescued the students and sent them safely back to the seminary.
Sep. 10, 2014   Kailash Puri colony Mojahidpur RS Bhagalpur, Bihar.  RSS and VHP called a bandh against religious conversion and vandalised the whole town. They broke the glasses of vehicles, jammed the railway track, shouted provocative slogan. Hindi Hindustan, Patna edition.
Sep. 9, 2014   Piri PS. Sithamadhi, Bihar Rajkishore a Dalit accepted Islam and gave statement that he changed his religion on his own. But police lodged FIR and harassed the members of minority community. Hindi Hindustan, Patna edition.
After the election of the BJP as the central ruling party, DDA Officials have been coming to a mosque in Subhash Nagar, West Delhi. They have been asking the Imam to vacate the mosque, close down the madrasa and go elsewhere. It is quite absurd to see that there have been no such issues with temples in the vicinity and they have been allowed to function willfully. People living in the area have informed and asked for help of higher officials and have contacted various other departments for the same. They also came up with a solution to buy the land if it wasn't owned already.
Sep. 8, 2014 Siwan, Bihar   In Badhadiya Thane, village Hardiya, people going to attend local fair were attacked with stone pelting leading to communal violence. Over a dozen bikes and toe buses were set on fire. Hindi Hindustan, Patna edition
Sep. 8, 2014   Karbala bazaar Badharia Siwan, Bihar When Mahaviri Akhada was passing in front of mosque at time of namaz then communal violence started. Anti-social element attacked the shop of Muslims. They looted shops, burnt vehicles. Police remained mute spectatre. Hindi Hindustan, Patna edition.
BJP MLA  SANGEET Singh Som calls Mahapanchayat against
In Meerut UP a Muslim boy and a class X student Girl eloped with each other due to which the BJP MP Rajendra Agarwal threatened the police that if a girl is not found within 24 hours than they launch the massive Agitation. BJP worker attacks the house of a Muslim boy and stops the way towards police station and attack on Muslims passing through the Way and destroy the neighbor shops of Muslims and their vehicles.
A Nursing home owner Kalam Sexually assault a woman of other religion and forced her to change their religion. According to the women men rape her from last one year. Police arrested the men and 10 others on the charges of rape, sexual assault and forced to change religion and Medical test of the victim is done.
Sep. 3, 2014   Kailash Puri colony  Mojahidpur P.S Bhagalpur .Bihar.  Communal colour was given to an inter religious love marriage causing communal tension in the area. Inquilab, Patna
At Thana Bhawan town of Shamli district, communal violence erupted over the construction of Temple on government land near the mosque
Pastor Chhoto Kumar and his house owner were beaten by Hindu fundamentalists at Bhusala Danapur, Patna on August 31, 2014. Pastor Chooto along with Pastor Ashok Marandi and Pastor Amit Soren were showing the film on Jesus in front of their house while two Hindu fundamentalists Shri Sanjay Roi and Shri Bumphod Roi came to the spot and stopped the film show. They shouted at the pastors and verbally threatened them saying “We are Hindus and we are living in Hindustan. Why are you converting us?
On August 30 in , about five Hindu extremists forcefully entered into the house of a Christian, questioned them on who has visited them, called them pagans and started to beat them up. Later that day, about 100 extremists with sticks stood in each corner of the village to make sure that no Christian go out from the village to file a police complaint and threatened to cut into pieces anyone who dare venture out to report the attack against the couple.
4 students from a particular community were beaten up by a group of people in Jat colony for allegedly for eve-teasing. They had gone for tuition classes in the colony and were rescued by the police. Police registered a case against more than 150 people and named 3 of them. This incident is a part of series of communal incidents since the Muzaffarnagar riots in 2013.
On 28 August in Unnao, Pastor Vimal Kumar and one evangelist from Christ Church were slapped and verbally abused by the Hindu extremists Bajrang Dal when they were coming back home after a prayer meeting.
A church with a cross in it that belonged to the 7th Day Adventists overnight turned into a temple adorned with a portrait of Shiva after what some Hindu groups in Aligarh termed the
A Church at Tolwar which is about 18 kms from Geedam, Dantewada Dstrict was forcefully shut down by a mob on August 24, 2014. The mob of about 200 Hindu fundamenatalists interupted the worship service of the Carmel Pentecostal Church and ordered it to be shut down. Sister Deepa who was the local Church leader along with Pastor Sushil Kurme and the believers were threatened to never come back to the viialge and conduct prayers meetings at the Church. The village head (sarpanch) was also present with the mob. No reports were filed till press time.
Aug 24 2014 Bhabhua kaimur Bihar when a butcher was going to throw waste materials of chicken , then plastic bag got torn near Mahavir mandir which led to communal tension on the next day people of majority community marched & protested and tried to close shops . Inquilab,Patna
Aug 24 2014    Manipuri UP   in Manipuri village khera a boy from one community raped  the girl of other community leading the  communal tension .center for harmony  and peace: Varanasi
Aug. 24, 2014    Kanpur,UP   In Kanpur, near Ghatempur, Communal violence took place, in which Eijaz and his Shop were set on blaze. Centre for Harmony and Peace: Varanasi
Three 3 youth belonging to minority community dragged out of their vehicle and  brutally assaulted by a group of people who shouted
On 22nd August 2014, i.e. Friday, Bro. Vipin Vishram Singh Dhurvey is arrested at Mahadwani Police Station by police station in-charge. While he was going for Friday meeting to a believers ‘s home, on the way police station in-charge met him and asked him, “where are you going?” and the missionary replied him back that he is going for Friday meeting. Listening this, police station in-charge took him to police station and kept him under his custody. In addition, he filed the case penal code of 295 and 298 against him, which stands and applies for criticism and hurting of other religion. On 24th August (Sunday) he was taken to Dindory Jail and today he will appear before the judge. Rev. Fr. Sunderson Singh Seger (Zonal in-charge) is going to meet the advocate and see the case.
Pastor Virendra (28) was forcefully pulled out by Hindu extremists during Sunday's service at Koranga village, Jashpur District on August 18, 2014 and taken to the police station where the police arrested him and booked him under Section 295(A).  The extremists had lodged complaints against the Pastor in three different police stations. They alleged that he had referred to Hindu Gods as evil spirits, asked believers to wear necklaces with crosses and converted people. About 20 local villagers testified at the Kunkuri Police Station that the allegations were false. Virendra is still in jail and has not got bail till press time.
On 17th August 2014, Pastor Bhabo Shankar Acharya was beaten by Hindu Extremists in East Medanipur, West Bengal for not reconverting to Hinduism and repeating the Hindu chants. The incident occurred while he was returning from the Church service that he had conducted that morning. The Pastor went to Goumutha Church in East Mednipur for Sunday worship Service. After the Church service at about 4.30 pm, he went to the Chandipur Bus stop to board into a bus to return back home and while waiting for the bus, he decided to have tea. At that time, two Hindu extremists came to him printed handbills by  local Hindu extremists and ask the Pastor to read it aloud. They then probed him about his whereabouts and forcefully took to them to their Ashram at Kotal Village. They then repeatedly beat him and ask him to chant Hindu mantras while they put a Tilak on his forehead. They then took him to four other of their centers and tortured him for the rest of the evening. They took away his ATM card and mobile and all his documents. The Pastor was then given three options in order to be released. First, he has to recant his faith and re-convert into his old faith, Hinduism. Secondly, he had to worship the Gods in the temple and thirdly, provide details of those who support him financially. They also threatened him that they would kill is if these conditions were not fulfilled. They also compelled him to sign some papers where they wrote that he would not convert any one. When the Pastor did not fulfill these conditions, they threatened him of dire consequences and released at 11.30 pm. No report was filed till press time.
Two preachers from the Jehovah Witness were arrested on allegations of conversion on August 17, 2014 at Sukhiya, Indore. Preachers Alex Paul and Roshan were caught while preaching on Monday, which was also the day of the Hindu festival Janmashtami. They were taken to the Harsh Nagar Police Station where a FIR was filed and they were charged under the MP Freedom of Religion Act, 1968 under Sec. 3 and 4. A mob of over 400 people had gathered outside the police station chanting slogans against the pastor. They were was bailed out by Christian workers next day morning.
The attack comes barely a fortnight after several Muslim families, running small enterprises such as tailoring and barber shops in Basai village, were beaten up and forced to flee to their native places in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. Twenty-five-year-old Mohammad Israr and his 40-year-old friend Aftab were at their shop near Kapashera on the Delhi-Haryana border when a large mob armed with sticks confronted them, accusing them of selling beef.
On 12 August in Pulittadi, Dakshin Kannada, police arrested four Christian women after the local villagers accused them of forceful conversion.
A packet found in front of a house became the issue of cow meat when a rumor spread that it contained the same. A crowd assembled as soon as this news spread and began harassing the Muslim family. Police acted swiftly and arrived at the location and dispersed the crowd. No damage was done and the family was saved from any untoward instances. Chauhan, the trouble monger-in chief wrote a complain against the household, but the Police say that the issue isn't as presented. They also say that the meat isn't cow's but for investigative purposes, they have sent the packet for testing.
On August 10, 2014, about 9 Hindu extremists pelted stones at the Church during their Sunday service that was being conducted by Christian missionaries Brother Elisha Thangaraj, Brother Tamil Arasan and Brother Jeba Singh at Chinnatharapuram, Karur District, Tamil Nadu. After the Sunday service at 5:30 pm, they came and threatened the missionaries to stop their religious activities in the area.
Hindu extremists have alleged that local Christians broke some of their idols at Arikpal Village, about 40 kms from Jagdalpur Village. A mob of 20-30 people have threatened the local Christians who have now approached the District Collector for protection for fear of violence that might break out against them. The situation is very tense at press time.
On August 7 in Jalanpur, Haridwar, Hindu extremists allegedly from Rashtriya Swamyamseval Sangh beat up the minor daughter of a Pastor from an Independent church while she was coming back from her school and later pelted stones at the Pastor's house . The Christians fled in fear.The Christians filed a police complaint. However, no action was taken against the attackers.
On Wednesday, 6th August, 2014 some unidentified miscreants allegedly vandalized Christian school buses parked in front of a church in Rohtak.
Two activists of a Hindu outfit were arrested for allegedly assaulting a pastor, accusing him of converting people by offering money, at Perur here on Tuesday. Police arrested Bharathi and Thangavel, the alleged mastermind of the attack, and remanded them. Simon Stanley (39), a resident of Perur, was heading a congregation of a Pentecostal church in Perur. During a recent service, the parents of an eight-year-old girl, who had broken her arm in a fall, had requested him to visit their house to pray for her quick recovery. On Monday, Stanley and ten church members went to the girl’s house at Perur Chettipalayam. They were praying when a six-member gang barged into the house and accused Stanley of offering money to the families in the locality for religious conversion. After a heated argument, the gang began assaulting him and other members of the congregation. Stanley was allegedly beaten up with sticks and dragged outside the house. He was then stripped and publicly humiliated by the gang, police said.Two Held For Assault on Kovai Pastor, India
On August 2, 2014, a Christian widow was beaten by local villagers for taking water from the public well in Jasadih Village, Deoghar. Shrimati Piyari Devi who had recently started coming to Church led by Ps. Mahendra das, was ostracized by the villagers for becoming a Christian along with other believers. The villagers had issued a warning to all Christians in the village to refrain from using the water from the common tube well. Upon hearing about the incident, the village chief defended the Christians and said,
On 28th July, 2014 (Monday), a mob of over 300 persons from the Yadav community led by Swami Krishnadavananda threatened the Pastor and 30 families who were believers in the Church at Gallaragati, Holalkara in the Chitradurga Distrcit to convert back to Hindusim. They along with the local Panchayat have issued a one week deadline to decide on the same, which otherwise, would lead to the families being ostracized from the local village.
Several Muslims stormed St. Thomas higher secondary school in Kerela a day after it served pork in the party held in school where most of the members were Catholics, during the month of Ramzan. the mob assaulted two teachers. The education department suspended headmaster Thomas Varghese and teacher Rajeev Joseph, who served pork curry to students after it was left. Although they informed them that it was pork curry and Muslims should not consume it, for them, the fish curry was to be served. When the parents come to know about the incident they approached the local Jamaat council and the matter was brought to the Education department.
A Christian along with his wife, mother in law and mother were beaten by Hindu fanatics at Parapur Village in Bastar, Chhattisgarh. The incident occurred when five Hindu fanatics called Shri Sakuram outside his house and started verbally abusing him. They alleged that that he had left their Gods and became a Christian to which he replied saying that he had become a Christian because he wanted to and noone had forced him to do so. On hearing this, they started slapping and kicking him. Then when they began to strangle him with the intention of killing, his mother and mother-in-law interfered and stopped the men from trying to kill him. They then slapped and beat the elderly women and his wife. He was bleeding profusely and was later admitted to the Jagdalpur hospital. When Shri Sakuram's wife went to the Lohandiguda Police Station to file a complaint, the police refrained from doing so, citing it as a family feud
On July 23 in Vatsala Vihar, Khandwa, Hindu villagers shouting “ Jai Shree Ram’ ( Praise Lord Ram ) demolished Holy Spirit School which was  constructed  with due permission from the Municipality after the housing board falsely and unreasonable accused the school of causing flood.
A group of Shiv sena MPs who were attending a meeting in Maharashtra Sadan, Delhi got angry upon the unavailability of Maharashtrian food and the bad service. MP Arvind Sawant went in the kitchen and tried to put roti into the mouth of staffer Arshad, bearing name tag, who was fasting during namaz. The act could have broke his fast and has hur his religious sentiments. IRCTC, which was carrying on the catering service, stopped the service as protest.
The incident started with a scuffle between two communities over motorcycle parking. It soon turned into stone pelting from both the sides. Several people were injured and around 50 cars were smashed. The violence spread to other parts of the city including Yakutpura, Chipwad and other neighborhoods where residents allege that local gangs got involved in the clashes and ?fired rounds? in the air to scare people. Police fired six tear gas shells to keep the situation under control.
On 17 July, Hindu extremists from the Bajrang Dal vandalized a Church at Bulandshahr and attacked  the priest(of the Church) and his family, alleging that they were involved in conversion. They verbally abused the priest and insulted the Bible. Two of them were later arrested after a report was filed by him.
Hindu extremists who had locked up a church on June 5 after they beat up a Christian family returned to threaten the family on 16 July even after Police took action last month against the extremists. The extremists had repeatedly beat up Kumar (name changed) and his family for their faith in Christ in May and June and finally locked up the church of the Indian Evangelical Team. Kumar and his family were dragged on the road and the entire family including two minor girls were beaten up mercilessly in the last incident. Singh and his family were socially boycotted ever since they decided to follow Christ in 2010.
July 11 2014  Samthaibari (Bogoriguri),Baksa district  BTAD Assam  . Four small venders of lemon namely Rubul Amin ,Backer Ali,Saddam Hussain and Atowar Rahman were Kidnapped leading to communally tense atmosphere.  Curfew was clamped in the district
July 10 2014 Suryamahal Lodipur P.s. Bhagalpur . Bihar. When some people went to cement their relative’s mud grave. Some yadavs opposed this which led to fight between them.
July 9 2014 Akbarpur village , Rohtas bihar, after a rumour of torture people became violent. They threw stone on P.S. lootled rifles, burnt police jeep and injured two policemen. Then police fired bullets in which 2 died and 7 were injured
July 8 Akbarpur village, Rohtas, bihar, in Rohtas block, Defamation message on prophet and Islam. A boy (Ajay) sent an obejectionable message on Prophet and Islam. Police immediately arrested the boy. No violence occurred.
Issue over a seat in a Raisen-bound bus escalated to become a fully-fledged communal riot. The mob attacked shops and vehicles, setting them on fire and damaging them severely. 3 people, namely Mannan Khan, Afsan Khan and Mateen Khan were inured with gunshot wounds. It is still unclear as to whose gun the shots were fired from.4 others were also admitted. The Police on arrival imposed an indefinite curfew and has reinforcements in the form of the RAF. 33 people have been arrested till midnight.
An aggressive campaign by the Vishwa Hindu Parishad had led to a ban on the entry of and propaganda by non-Hindu missionaries, especially Christians, in more than 50 villages of Chhattisgarh’s Bastar region in the last six months. The Sirisguda gram panchayat in the Tokapal block of Bastar passed the order at a special Gram Sabha organised on May 10. The order, a copy of which is available with The Hindu, says, “To stop the forced conversion by some outsider religious campaigners and to prevent them from using derogatory language against Hindu deities and customs, the Sirisguda Gram Sabha bans religious activities such as prayers, meetings and propaganda of all non-Hindu religions.”
July 4 2014 Kanth, Muradabad, UP in muradabad near Kanth area, Communal violence took place in which 50 people got injured including the DM. A large group of BJP workders clashed with police as they were stopped from holding a “Mahapanchayat: or large gathering in Kanth town, which has been tense over religious dispute.
ne of the Free Methodist Churches at Belar, 30 Km. east of Jagdalpur, Chhatisgarh was under by a frenzied mob of the Vajrang Dal that stormed towards the church premises on June 3, 2014 with the intention of demolishing the building. But the villagers took their ground and frustrated the evil plan. The Christians mostly belong to Madia tribe.
July 3 2014 Hardoi, UP: In Hardoi near Saripur, anti social elements destroyed Madrassa wall leading to communal tension. Role of Police was allegedly biased.
In july 2 2014 Saharanpur behat, UP  in mirzapur village Tahirpur clash between two communities due to playing of band during namaz
7 injured in a clash between two communities
The issue started when a loudspeaker was removed from the temple in Nayagaon village by the Moradabad district administration. Hindus demanded reinstalling the loudspeaker while Muslims were adamant on not letting the reinstalling happen until after Eid. This resulted in BJP's call for a mahapanchayat. The district administration denied the permission. Due to the denial, BJP workers clashed with the police, stopped two trains and damaged overhead electricity lines.
A Pastor Chiman Singh was severely beaten by a mob of about 150 assailants during an afternoon prayer meeting at Killoda Village at Madhya Pradesh, India on Monday, the 30th of June, 2014. The pastor was later arrested along with a member of his church and charged under the MP Freedom of Religion Act Sec.3, 4 and 5. The incident took place when the pastor was at his church member's house to conduct a prayer meeting at around 2:00 pm. The local RSS leader Jai Ram Gujjar along with the mob came to the house and caught the pastor and started beating him up profusely. He was verbally abused for being an adivasi and for using people from higher castes to convert the village into Christianity. They also got hold of the member and beat him up after which he escaped and ran to the nearby village. Seeing how the mob was beating up the pastor, the member's family managed to take the pastor inside their house and locked the doors to protect him from the raging mob that was waiting to get hold of the pastor again.  Meanwhile, the police was called and the Pastor was arrested while the church member was also arrested the next day.
BJP MP calls mahapachayat against removal of loudspeakers from the temple in Akbarpur Chendri village during the shivratri festival. The village has 80 percent Muslim population and it was not the tradition of the temple to use loudspeaker however it was being used during the Shivratri festival. The administration removed the loudspeaker on finding that there was no such tradition in that village, and could create disharmony in the area. A large number of shops were closed, railway tracks jammed for hours as a protest against the action. Policemen were also attacked in the Kanth town by BJP workers.
On expression of dislike by a group of Hindus about the shed being installed in a mosque, the Police arrived at the mosque and removed it. They also ordered that it may not be installed in the near future. When the Muslim community reacted to this act, they were lathi-charged by the Police and dispersed due to the same. This created an environment of tension among the Muslim residents of the area. Forces have been deployed to keep the situation under control.
Suspected Hindu extremists demolished an independent church of a Pastor Santosh Roa. According to local sources, the thatched building of the church was completely destroyed. Some villagers claimed that the building was destroyed by a cyclone. The area Christians, however, maintained that it was at the hands of the extremists as only the church was damaged in the area by the so called 'cyclone'.  Moreover, the local Hindu extremists have threatened to harm the Pastor if he continues to conduct a worship meeting in the area several times in the past.
In Faizabad, near Bikapur communual tension developed due to small incidence
In Lisadi village, communal tension erupted over the use of loudspeaker.
Communal tension erupted after the burning of religious scriptures and places of worship.
In Shamli, 2 women and 13 people got injured after communal strife took place over the use of loudspeaker at places of worship.
A communal situation arose when there was an altercation between communities over the use of loudspeakers. People started pelting stones at each other. The situation turned violent and locals say that around 12 people were injured, though the Police maintain that the number of injuries amounted only to 2. A woman is said to have sustained bullet injuries. A Police contingent had been stationed at the site later to maintain peace. The Police have taken 5 people into custody in this regard at the Lisari Gate Police Station.
An issue arose on the usage of loudspeakers during a marriage function in the limits of the Domariyaganj Police Station. The Hindu Yuva Vahini tried to take advantage of the tense situation and started using different tactics for the same. The Police stopped them when they started to moved towards the area. Police Captain K.K.Chaudhary and District Magistrate Prakash Mishra assured the people regarding the perpetrators and asked them to remain calm. It was later noted that the Police had started arresting Muslims and around 15 of them were booked. This created a environment of fear among the families of the area and most of them left by the evening.The Police also arrested young boys, namely Junaid, Nisar and Ashfaq.
52 Christian families were denied ration for 2 months on the orders of the village Panchayat. These families then approached the Food inspector of the district and requested an inquiry. On June 16, when two representatives went to the village heads in order to appease them, they were chased away. Further, the assailants also lodged a false complaint at the Badanji Police Station about the Christians beating the Hindus in the village. This was subsequently followed up by a mob of 200 people attacking the 52 Christian families. These families were pelted stone at and chased with sticks. 8 men and 2 women were seriously injured and were hospitalised. These women were pulled to the ground while the perpetrators stood on them and hit their genital organs.
There was a clash between 2 young boys which later turned into a communal fight. A heated discussion became a physical battle which was then sorted of by the onlookers. One of the two boys belonged to the Hindu Yuva Vahini and he later on used his influence to amass a protest asking for arrest of the Muslims with whom he had an earlier altercation. The protest involved blocking the Azamgarh-Benaras roadway uptill evening 6 pm after which the crowd dispersed.
On rumors of cow slaughter, violence broke out in Madhubani, Bihar. Hindu anti-social elements razed 4 houses to the ground and physically assaulted those around. This forced the Muslims to stay within their homes making them prisoners in their own comfort-zones. Pelting and hitting continued even after the Police arrived. It was later understood that this rumor was created in order to incite communal tensions. Police force has been deployed in huge numbers. Those injured were admitted in the local private clinic.
Naresh Tikait, son of Mahendra Singh Tikait, who claims to be secular had proved that he wants muslims to go from India. Tikait delivered a speech in panchayat where he said that India is for hindus only and muslims should go from India. Tikait leads Bharatiya Kisan Union which affiliates to BJP.
Christian believer had gathered in a house to pray. When they were leaving the house, they were physically attacked by a group of 15 extremists linked with the Bajrang Dal. The extremists surrounded the Pastor and the other Christians, verbally abused them for their faith, pushed them physically, and snatched their bags. The extremists are also reported to have torn the Bible and threatened the worshippers to not pray in that area in the future. The Christians have, however, not filed a complaint with the Police.
Bhagwat-Gita recitation was going on for one week at Cheti Yadav's house. On Friday, at the time of the Muslim prayer, the volume of DJ was increased leading to disturbance in prayers. After the prayers, a complaint was made to Cheti Yadav and he rebuked his son Babloo who had increased the volume. After that, the matter was settled but Yuva Vahini, a Hindu right youth organisation, collected hundreds of people at Yadav's house and pressurized him to file cases in the police station against Muslims for arson during the Bhagwat Gita recital.
Anti social elements in the Shamli district, Qasba Kandhal of Uttar Pradesh trew kerosene oil into a mosque. This event led to the build-up of communal tension in the area.
On 8 June, 2014 at about seven in the morning a young man named Danvir, while riding a motor cycle, was mowed down by a dumper near Pataudi-Mohammadpur road junction in Tauru, a small town in Mewat district of Haryana. He died on the spot. The driver ran away and two cleaners of the dumper - Raes and Mubarak, both Meos, were caught by the mob on the spot. In such a situation the accused are usually beaten up and then handed over to the police for further action. Here the situation took an explosive turn. Since the deceased and the alleged culprits were of different religions, Hindu communal elements in the mob imparted a communal colour to the incident. Had all the persons involved in the accident including the victim belonged to the same religion, the situation would not have gone out of control. Both the cleaners were thrashed by the mob with a sizeable presence of a Hindu mob, so ruthlessly, that they lost consciousness. Sawai Singh Sehrawat, living in close neighbourhood, tried to hide the injured in his house but the mob dragged them outside and continued beating them. The policemen tried to save them but the mob snatched them from police and beating continued. They died as a result of this assault. two mosques burnt, some shops of Hindu community were ransacked and There were three major Muslim Meo establishments in the town - Sai Collection, a showroom of clothes, a three-storied Mohammud Cloth House and a Coca Cola agency. All three were burnt to the ground. The elements owing allegiance to RSS and its affiliates started spreading a rumour that Radhswami Satsang Bhawan and and Pagha temple were razed to the ground which intensified the riot.
Two dead bodies were buried in the land of AMU's Kishanganj Campus by the locals. It is quite suspicious that they chose the late hours of the night to conduct such rites. They also claim the land to be that of a graveyard and that they weren't wrong in any manner. This situation took a communal feel but the Police arrived timely and controlled the situation.
Hindu and Muslim communities clashed over the construction of a sewer line. The dispute was over the route of the sewer line as it passed through a Hindu temple. After a protest, the route of the sewer line was diverted but the diverted pipe will discharge untreated waste on a plot next to the temple. Despite strong opposition from the Hindu community, Muslims went ahead with the construction which led to a riot.
Communal tensions were triggered in the community after derogatory pictures of Shivaji and Bal Thackeray were circulated on Facebook. A radical Hindu outfit, Hindu Rashtra Sena, resorted to demonstrations which turned violent on May 31. The protesters were initially targeting government property but soon started looting and vandalizing businesses and places of worship of the minority. It was during this time that Mohsin became a victim of this communal unrest. On the night of June 2, he was returning Riyaz after offering prayers at the Shine Anjuman mosque. On their way back, they were confronted by a gang of 30-40 armed men shouting slogans. Upon seeing them, Mohsin moved aside. But seeing that Mohsin was wearing a skull cap and sporting a beard, they started assaulting him with hockey sticks, iron bars and bats. Riyaz escaped with injuries but Mohsin succumbed to death after he was brought to the hospital.
While celebrating the victory of Narendra Modi in Bijapur, BJP party workers forcibly tried to apply color to the bystanders and to those in the nearby marketplace. When people showed strong dissent to such actions, they retaliated using force and started a show of physical prowess. The whole area got involved and it became a communal issue within seconds. More than 17 people have been injured and shops have been burned. The Police on arrival declared a curfew.
Communal clash emerged in Bijapur, Karnataka during victory procession of Prime Minister Narendra Modi lead by former misnister Yatnal. Violence emerged when the rally reached Gandhi Chowk and was applying gulaal on people's face but some of them refused. Shops belonging to muslims were burnt down and more than a dozen sustained injuries. The situation came under control after two hours and section 144 was imposed in the area. Around 30 perpetrators were later arrested by the police.
Dherubada, Rayagada (Orissa): – Nimmaka Laxmaya, 50, is the latest Christian victim in Odisha. He was waylaid and bludgeoned to death by the Hindu fundamentalists on the afternoon of 25th May 2014 in a village called Dherubada in Orissa. He hailed from a neighbouring village called Vandidi. He was returning from a Baptism ceremony where his son had been baptized the same day. He was attacked on his way back to home. The murder seemed to have been pre-planned and was very cleverly executed to spread a sort of fear among the members of Christian prayer groups in that area. The anti-christian groups later came to threat and harass the Christian community of the area.
A mob attacked and physically assaulted a Christian family and blocked the road on 25th of May, 2014. The mob subsequently returned and beat up the family asking them to leave Christianity. even the little children and young girls were beaten up. FIR was registered against both the Christians and members of the mob for disturbing the peace of region. the ca church has been shut down till date.
Inflammatory statements were made by Giri Raj Singh which spiked communal tensions. They were quite volatile and had a clear motive. The EC has banned him from campaigning and this comes as a jolt for the BJP right in the middle of election season.
Due to communal tensions which rose earlier, people have begun leaving their homes. Police claims to have the situation under control but the actual situation doesn't seem so. Families have been fearing for their lives and most of them have already left their homes empty. If this situation isn't controlled, we may witness harsh brutalities. Though some shops opened today, most of the workers belonging to the Muslim community didn't come to work fearing the fact that the situation may again go out of hand. The riots which happened 5 days ago have left a deep imprint on the community spreading fear and divide among the people.
BJP Leader Giriraj Singh once again gives controversial comment. Now, he gives a statement in which he says that Terrorists came from only one particular community. And, he also said that Article 370 in Indian Constitution should be revoked.
On 13th May  a
BJP Workers attacked and damaged 3 mosques in Mangalore. Their acts have led to heavy infrastructural losses. Police has arrested 9 people and lodged FIRs against them. A Gandhi statue was also damaged badly. Its legs were broken and this was recorded in a CCTV camera. Manogar, 62, confessed to breaking the statue while turning himself in to the Police. It is quite appalling to see that less than 24 hours after elections, acts like these have started to take place. If this continues, what will the unknown future behold?
In Meerut, Uttar Pradesh communal clash is occurring over the well. According to the report, the in-charge of the Mosque start fencing well with the concrete wall after which the tension increase and both sides exchange the words and then clash occur between both communities and clash occur after this and spread in the areas of Bazaza Bazar, Lala Bazar, and Budhana gate. In this clash in mob firing 3 peoples died and 50 peoples were injured and the BJP corporator Vijay Anand was also manhandled, reports said. The mob burns shops and vehicles. BJP leaders in Meerut also post the photos of the youth who was seriously injured in the firing.
Kannada writer UR Ananthmurthy criticized Narendra Modi and also said that he would leave the country if Narendra Modi became the Prime Minister. After the big win of BJP in the elections, and Narendra Modi becoming the Prime Minister of the country, UR Ananthmurthy started receiving threatening calls at odd times to leave the country. He received a one-way air ticket to Karachi and was threatened to leave the country. Later Ananthmurthy clarified that it was a slip of his tongue. He also said that he is not afraid of anything as he has grown up expressing whatever he feels. Police security has been enhanced around his residence as interior minister of Karnataka state, KL George says everyone has got the right to speech and expression and it is our duty to protect that very right of any person.
During Ram Nauvmi when the Rath Yatra is going from the Sayyadnagar area then a person Rahamatullah stop the way after which police intervene in the matter after the matter increase and some peoples throw stones from there home because the rally is going from the new way because old way is not repairing and after this the devotees were also involved in the clash and in the clash the vehicles of police was also burned by the violent Mob.
BJP leader called Jamia Nagar and Batla House a 'Den of Terrorists' after 2 boys were arrested on the charge of aiding such organizations. His statement comes at a turbulent time keeping in mind that his party is trying to appease its Muslims base. It points towards the heavily Muslim populated areas of Delhi which have had quite some incidents in the past.
A mosque and a house attached to it were set on fire by some anti-social elements on the day of Holi. According to reports, people climbed onto the roof of the mosque and set fire to it. The house of Hafiz Nazir which was next to the mosque also caught fire in the process. Police arrived on the location and controlled the situation while deploying a larger force for future uncertainties. It is also to be noted that no arrests were made even after 2 days of this incident. Also, some people left wood used for burning in the graveyard of Khanpur village, creating a tense situation. Police removed the wood but didn't pursue the matter further.
In Mumbra police detained 80 Muslim men in the suspicion of chain snatching gang. They were also abusing the locals of Rashid Compound in the Kausa area of Mumbra by saying
Muslim boy in Moradabad from Wilsonia College is asked by the principal to shave his beard. According to the report, the principal is not giving admit card to the student because of his beard. The case has been lodged against Wilsonia College principal, A S Santram, under IPC Section 298 (uttering words etc with deliberate intent to hurt religious feelings) at the Civil Lines police station. According to the victim, the principal refused to give him admit card because of his beard while according to the principal in the photo there is not a beard on his face which create a problem for the student.
Members of both communities (Hindu and Muslim) attacked each other over the construction of a platform around a Banyan tree which was a place for keeping idols for worship over several years in Muhammadpur village. The dispute took a communal shape and mob attacked various shops, vehicles, etc. The shopkeeper claims the loss of 35 lakhs. The brother of the head of the village had died in the clash.
Members of two communities clashed with each other when one person of another community, who tried to stop the construction of the platform around a banyan tree where idol worship was carried out, was thrashed by people constructing the platform. Later, people from another community attacked those who were constructing the platform. Clashes turned out of control when some unidentified people opened fire killing Vijay prasad and severally injuring Mohammad Azhar who was later  rushed to Varanasi with a bullet wound for treatment. Nearly a dozen others were injured in the clash, shops were burned and destroyed as the rioters went on rampage and vandalism. Police detained few rioters and deployed PAC to maintain order in the region. S.H.O  S. Siddiqui was suspended for dereliction of duty.
on 8th February 2014, six people from the village alleged the usage of the loudspeaker by temple, according to court order nobody is allowed to use the loudspeaker but on seeing Hindus using loudspeaker on mandir Muslim also given azaan on the loudspeaker. but booked FIR against 5 Muslims of the village and arrested including caretaker but not against those culprits from other community.
A threatening letter was discovered from near a mosque at the time of Fajr prayer. The mosque was also locked when the Imam Syed Qasim came to open it for the before-dawn prayers. On witnessing the locked mosque he called the caretaker Nawab Waris Khan and informed him of the situation. Police became aware of the situation and arrived promptly. The caretaker showed them the letter which they have accepted as evidence and registered a case under Sec. 153A of the IPC. Upon investigation it was revealed that 3 people had come to the mosque before Fajr prayer and the following happenings were a result of their actions. It has been ascertained that these acts have been performed for political gain and to create a tense environment.
The Clash occur in the Kotadi Village of Pratapgarh District of Rajasthan when the member of RSS was verbally abused by the members of Muslim community. After this, both communities with their community members and at the bus stand according to the news minority community members open fire on the others after this they also fired and after the violence spread in the neighboring districts then three peoples were killed and six were injured in the violence. And, the shops and houses of the minority community were also burned by the peoples.
The clash flared up on Jan 14 evening, after both Muslim and Rajput communities celebrated Eid Miladun Nabi and Makar Sankranti peacefully, and two groups of young men began to quarrel over some remarks made by one of the groups. Both the groups gathered support from their respective communities and clashed at the local bus stand. The violence spread to the neighbouring village of Moheda, where three persons Dinesh Gaeri, 25, Bhanwar Singh, 45 and Raja Khan, 20 were killed.
An attempt to create a atmosphere of communal riots was made in the village of Belawa, Balrampur. On 3 January, Dhirender Kumar Tiwary, son of Ghanshyam Tiwary and a resident of Mahadeo Harihar Nagar was in a state of inebriation, verbally abused a group of Muslims near Belawa Police Station. People around cooled off the matter but Dhirender Kumar threatened the group of consequences while dispersing. The next day, on the 4th of January around the time of Fajr prayer, he came with a group of people and stood in front of the village's mosque and began cursing the Muslims present. People around controlled the situation. Around 8 or 9 am, later in the day, a group of people came in cars armed with sticks and weapons. They entered into the villagers homes and started harassing and hitting the occupants among which Wahid was badly injured. They also abused the children, girls and women present. The Police on arriving at the scene sided with the perpetrators and arrested many innocent people. Wahid, who was arrested by the Police on arrival, was physically tortured and died in custody. His family was later informed of his death. A case was registered on the insistence of Wahid's wife against an unknown number of people.
Around 5000 people had moved out of their homes and were camped in Kandhla village of Shamli District when the District Collector Praveen Kumar showed utmost rudeness and asked them to move out stating that the Government would soon be taking care of them. These people were loaded in trucks and sent towards the forest with no guarantee of their future. It is surprising that no institution or NGO has come forward to help or even speak on their behalf. It is only to be seen what happens to them.
RSS volunteers vandalized in Ambedkar Park of East Delhi following which additional police was appointed in the area. They also attacked a madarasa situated in Rani Nagar of Geeta Colony. Two belonging to madarasa were injured and were admitted to a nursing home. Additional police force was appointed in the area.
 lucknow, january 9: eight persons were injured in incidents following a quarrel between two boys and a passer-by in the aminabad area, lucknow s main shopping centre, this afternoon. some shops were also damaged. the situation has now been brought under control and armed police are patrolling the area. about 8p.m., a group of persons attacked a row of shops in hazratganj, a business centre in the civil lines, and smashed show-cases and looted goods. the police rushed to the scene and arrested about 15 persons. toi jan 10, 1950
it is reported that cow slaughter by some butchers was the cause of this clash.
 lucknow, february 9:  save for a minor incident yesterday afternoon bareilly has continued to remain quiet, according to official reports received here this evening. states a communique issued tonight by the sub-committee of the state press consultative committee. the communique added:  the curfew could not be lifted at ten p.m. last night , but was extended till eight a.m. it was reimposed at 12 noon. intensive patrolling by the army and the p.a. continued. seventy-eight persons were arrested for breach of the curfew yesterday out of whom 70 were convicted. today 118 people were convicted and ordered to pay fines ranging from rs.5 to 25 each.  among other incidents today was the pulling of the alarm chain of a train at the outer signal of the railway station. toi feb 10, 1950
riots in response to attacks on hs in east pak2 killed and 38 injured on the 9th1 killed and 56 wounded and 125 arrested on the 10thsituation reported as returning to normal by the 15th.
there was a sudden and widespread outburst of mass violence in the northern part of the goalpara district of assam in the last week of february. grevious damage was done to the property of members of the minority community before military aid was rushed to the spot. mass violence noted took the form of setting fire to villages and driving unfortunate victims to railway lines.
 aligarh, march 3: communal disturbances broke out this evening in some parts of the city when a boy threw coloured water on a passer-by. curfew has been imposed on the city and armed patrols are moving about. toi march 4, 1950 aligarh, march 5.five persons were killed and 40 injured in communal disturbances here on saturday.there were many cases of looting and arson. houses and shops were set on fire. two persons travelling by the 139 up agra-delhi passenger were killed by rioters when the train halted at a signal awaiting clearance of the line.the district magistrate applied a 24-hour curfew and 125 persons were arrested for breach of the curfew order. about 60 persons were also taken into custody for rioting. times of india, march 6, 1950 lucknow, march 6: the situation in four towns in the uttar pradesh state, aligarh, moradabad, pilibhit and bareilly, was reported to be normal yesterday. there have been no further clashes. toi march 7, 1950 lucknow, march 9: the uttar pradesh government have levied a collective fine of rs.4,500 on the hindu and muslim inhabitants of certain localities in aligarh as a seuqel to the communal disturbances there during the  holi  celebrations.proposals to levy collective fines at moradabad and bareilly ehre disturbances occurred last week are under consideration of the state government. toi march 11, 1950 lucknow, march 15: mr lal bahadur shastri, home minister who returned here after a three-day tour of the shahjahanpur, bareilly, and pilibhit districts where communal disturbances occurred during the holi festival, told journalists to-day that the situation was quiet and control. the minister revealed that 68 persons, including muslims and non-muslims, had been killed in the three districts and at aligarh and moradabad. these figures included about a dozen killed in police firing on rioters. tracing the origin of the trouble, mr. shastri observed that in most cases coloured water was thrown on muslims, this leading to isolated incidents which spread to other localities. mr. shastri added that local authorities had taken  strong action  in the affected areas, where about 2,000 persons had been arrested.bareilly: dusk-to dawn curfew continues in bareilly city. the only incident reported was the discovery in the civil lines area of the body of a rickshaw puller who was shot dead apparently on sunday night. toi march 17, 1950
 pilibhit, march 5.rioting started in the city yesterday, when a holi procession passing through a  mohalla , was attacked with brickbats, resulting in injury to seven persons. the trouble then spread to other localities. the authorities took prompt action to quell the riots.a few cases of arsons and looting have been reported. over 200 arrests have been effected and orders under section 144 c.p.c. has been promulgated for a month. curfew has been imposed in the town. times of india, march 6, 1950 lucknow, march 6: the situation in four towns in the uttar pradesh state, aligarh, moradabad, pilibhit and bareilly, was reported to be normal yesterday. there have been no further clashes. toi march 7, 1950 lucknow, march 15: mr lal bahadur shastri, home minister who returned here after a three-day tour of the shahjahanpur, bareilly, and pilibhit districts where communal disturbances occurred during the holi festival, told journalists to-day that the situation was quiet and control. the minister revealed that 68 persons, including muslims and non-muslims, had been killed in the three districts and at aligarh and moradabad. these figures included about a dozen killed in police firing on rioters. tracing the origin of the trouble, mr. shastri observed that in most cases coloured water was thrown on muslims, this leading to isolated incidents which spread to other localities. mr. shastri added that local authorities had taken  strong action  in the affected areas, where about 2,000 persons had been arrested.bareilly: dusk-to dawn curfew continues in bareilly city. the only incident reported was the discovery in the civil lines area of the body of a rickshaw puller who was shot dead apparently on sunday night. toi march 17, 1950
 aligarh, march 5.five persons were killed and 40 injured in communal disturbances here on saturday.there were many cases of looting and arson. houses and shops were set on fire. two persons travelling by the 139 up agra-delhi passenger were killed by rioters when the train halted at a signal awaiting clearance of the line.the district magistrate applied a 24-hour curfew and 125 persons were arrested for breach of the curfew order. about 60 persons were also taken into custody for rioting. times of india, march 6, 1950 lucknow, march 6: the situation in four towns in the uttar pradesh state, aligarh, moradabad, pilibhit and bareilly, was reported to be normal yesterday. there have been no further clashes. toi march 7, 1950 lucknow, march 9: the uttar prades government have levied a collective fine of rs.4,500 on the hindu and muslim inhabitants of certain localities in aligarh as a seuqel to the communal disturbances there during the  holi  celebrations.proposals to levy collective fines at moradabad and bareilly ehre disturbances occurred last week are under consideration of the state government. toi march 11, 1950 lucknow, march 15: mr lal bahadur shastri, home minister who returned here after a three-day tour of the shahjahanpur, bareilly, and pilibhit districts where communal disturbances occurred during the holi festival, told journalists to-day that the situation was quiet and control. the minister revealed that 68 persons, including muslims and non-muslims, had been killed in the three districts and at aligarh and moradabad. these figures included about a dozen killed in police firing on rioters. tracing the origin of the trouble, mr. shastri observed that in most cases coloured water was thrown on muslims, this leading to isolated incidents which spread to other localities. mr. shastri added that local authorities had taken  strong action  in the affected areas, where about 2,000 persons had been arrested.bareilly: dusk-to dawn curfew continues in bareilly city. the only incident reported was the discovery in the civil lines area of the body of a rickshaw puller who was shot dead apparently on sunday night. toi march 17, 1950
 lucknow, march 6: the situation in four towns in the uttar pradesh state, aligarh, moradabad, pilibhit and bareilly, was reported to be normal yesterday. there have been no further clashes. toi march 7, 1950 bareilly, march 10: there was renewed tension in the city yesterday when four people were killed in an incident in the kalibari area. police carried out extensive house searches and arrested 35 persons. heavy police patrolling continues. the total number of arrests so far for violation of curfew in the city is about 600. toi march 11, 1950 lucknow, march 15: mr lal bahadur shastri, home minister who returned here after a three-day tour of the shahjahanpur, bareilly, and pilibhit districts where communal disturbances occurred during the holi festival, told journalists to-day that the situation was quiet and control. the minister revealed that 68 persons, including muslims and non-muslims, had been killed in the three districts and at aligarh and moradabad. these figures included about a dozen killed in police firing on rioters. tracing the origin of the trouble, mr. shastri observed that in most cases coloured water was thrown on muslims, this leading to isolated incidents which spread to other localities. mr. shastri added that local authorities had taken  strong action  in the affected areas, where about 2,000 persons had been arrested.bareilly: dusk-to dawn curfew continues in bareilly city. the only incident reported was the discovery in the civil lines area of the body of a rickshaw puller who was shot dead apparently on sunday night. toi march 17, 1950
 aligarh, march 3: communal disturbances broke out this evening in some parts of the city when a boy threw coloured water on a passer-by. curfew has been imposed on the city and armed patrols are moving about. toi march 4, 1950 aligarh, march 5.five persons were killed and 40 injured in communal disturbances here on saturday.there were many cases of looting and arson. houses and shops were set on fire. two persons travelling by the 139 up agra-delhi passenger were killed by rioters when the train halted at a signal awaiting clearance of the line.the district magistrate applied a 24-hour curfew and 125 persons were arrested for breach of the curfew order. about 60 persons were also taken into custody for rioting. times of india, march 6, 1950 lucknow, march 6: the situation in four towns in the uttar pradesh state, aligarh, moradabad, pilibhit and bareilly, was reported to be normal yesterday. there have been no further clashes. toi march 7, 1950 lucknow, march 9: the uttar pradesh government have levied a collective fine of rs.4,500 on the hindu and muslim inhabitants of certain localities in aligarh as a seuqel to the communal disturbances there during the  holi  celebrations.proposals to levy collective fines at moradabad and bareilly ehre disturbances occurred last week are under consideration of the state government. toi march 11, 1950 lucknow, march 15: mr lal bahadur shastri, home minister who returned here after a three-day tour of the shahjahanpur, bareilly, and pilibhit districts where communal disturbances occurred during the holi festival, told journalists to-day that the situation was quiet and control. the minister revealed that 68 persons, including muslims and non-muslims, had been killed in the three districts and at aligarh and moradabad. these figures included about a dozen killed in police firing on rioters. tracing the origin of the trouble, mr. shastri observed that in most cases coloured water was thrown on muslims, this leading to isolated incidents which spread to other localities. mr. shastri added that local authorities had taken  strong action  in the affected areas, where about 2,000 persons had been arrested.bareilly: dusk-to dawn curfew continues in bareilly city. the only incident reported was the discovery in the civil lines area of the body of a rickshaw puller who was shot dead apparently on sunday night. toi march 17, 1950
 lucknow, march 6: the situation in four towns in the uttar pradesh state, aligarh, moradabad, pilibhit and bareilly, was reported to be normal yesterday. there have been no further clashes. toi march 7, 1950 bareilly, march 10: there was renewed tension in the city yesterday when four people were killed in an incident in the kalibari area. police carried out extensive house searches and arrested 35 persons. heavy police patrolling continues. the total number of arrests so far for violation of curfew in the city is about 600. toi march 11, 1950 lucknow, march 15: mr lal bahadur shastri, home minister who returned here after a three-day tour of the shahjahanpur, bareilly, and pilibhit districts where communal disturbances occurred during the holi festival, told journalists to-day that the situation was quiet and control. the minister revealed that 68 persons, including muslims and non-muslims, had been killed in the three districts and at aligarh and moradabad. these figures included about a dozen killed in police firing on rioters. tracing the origin of the trouble, mr. shastri observed that in most cases coloured water was thrown on muslims, this leading to isolated incidents which spread to other localities. mr. shastri added that local authorities had taken  strong action  in the affected areas, where about 2,000 persons had been arrested.bareilly: dusk-to dawn curfew continues in bareilly city. the only incident reported was the discovery in the civil lines area of the body of a rickshaw puller who was shot dead apparently on sunday night. toi march 17, 1950
 lucknow, march 6: the situation in four towns in the uttar pradesh state, aligarh, moradabad, pilibhit and bareilly, was reported to be normal yesterday. there have been no further clashes. toi march 7, 1950 bareilly, march 10: there was renewed tension in the city yesterday when four people were killed in an incident in the kalibari area. police carried out extensive house searches and arrested 35 persons. heavy police patrolling continues. the total number of arrests so far for violation of curfew in the city is about 600. toi march 11, 1950 lucknow, march 15: mr lal bahadur shastri, home minister who returned here after a three-day tour of the shahjahanpur, bareilly, and pilibhit districts where communal disturbances occurred during the holi festival, told journalists to-day that the situation was quiet and control. the minister revealed that 68 persons, including muslims and non-muslims, had been killed in the three districts and at aligarh and moradabad. these figures included about a dozen killed in police firing on rioters. tracing the origin of the trouble, mr. shastri observed that in most cases coloured water was thrown on muslims, this leading to isolated incidents which spread to other localities. mr. shastri added that local authorities had taken  strong action  in the affected areas, where about 2,000 persons had been arrested.bareilly: dusk-to dawn curfew continues in bareilly city. the only incident reported was the discovery in the civil lines area of the body of a rickshaw puller who was shot dead apparently on sunday night. toi march 17, 1950
 lucknow, march 6: the situation in four towns in the uttar pradesh state, aligarh, moradabad, pilibhit and bareilly, was reported to be normal yesterday. there have been no further clashes. toi march 7, 1950 bareilly, march 10: there was renewed tension in the city yesterday when four people were killed in an incident in the kalibari area. police carried out extensive house searches and arrested 35 persons. heavy police patrolling continues. the total number of arrests so far for violation of curfew in the city is about 600. toi march 11, 1950 lucknow, march 15: mr lal bahadur shastri, home minister who returned here after a three-day tour of the shahjahanpur, bareilly, and pilibhit districts where communal disturbances occurred during the holi festival, told journalists to-day that the situation was quiet and control. the minister revealed that 68 persons, including muslims and non-muslims, had been killed in the three districts and at aligarh and moradabad. these figures included about a dozen killed in police firing on rioters. tracing the origin of the trouble, mr. shastri observed that in most cases coloured water was thrown on muslims, this leading to isolated incidents which spread to other localities. mr. shastri added that local authorities had taken  strong action  in the affected areas, where about 2,000 persons had been arrested.bareilly: dusk-to dawn curfew continues in bareilly city. the only incident reported was the discovery in the civil lines area of the body of a rickshaw puller who was shot dead apparently on sunday night. toi march 17, 1950
 lucknow, march 6: the situation in four towns in the uttar pradesh state, aligarh, moradabad, pilibhit and bareilly, was reported to be normal yesterday. there have been no further clashes. toi march 7, 1950 bareilly, march 10: there was renewed tension in the city yesterday when four people were killed in an incident in the kalibari area. police carried out extensive house searches and arrested 35 persons. heavy police patrolling continues. the total number of arrests so far for violation of curfew in the city is about 600. toi march 11, 1950 lucknow, march 15: mr lal bahadur shastri, home minister who returned here after a three-day tour of the shahjahanpur, bareilly, and pilibhit districts where communal disturbances occurred during the holi festival, told journalists to-day that the situation was quiet and control. the minister revealed that 68 persons, including muslims and non-muslims, had been killed in the three districts and at aligarh and moradabad. these figures included about a dozen killed in police firing on rioters. tracing the origin of the trouble, mr. shastri observed that in most cases coloured water was thrown on muslims, this leading to isolated incidents which spread to other localities. mr. shastri added that local authorities had taken  strong action  in the affected areas, where about 2,000 persons had been arrested.bareilly: dusk-to dawn curfew continues in bareilly city. the only incident reported was the discovery in the civil lines area of the body of a rickshaw puller who was shot dead apparently on sunday night. toi march 17, 1950
a communal riot broke out over the throwing of colored water during holi celebrations. a number of shops were looted and some burnt.
a party celebrating holi threw colored water on some persons who objected to it, and this resulted in a clash. there were stabbings and arsons and curfew was imposed.
 ahmedabad march 13: three cases of stabbing, two of which proved fatal, have been reported in the city today. the police are patrolling the affected areas. nagpur: following an incident on monday evening, in which one person died of stab wounds and two were injured, one seriously, in the city area, police patrols were strengthened and curfew rigidly enforced in certain specified parts of the city on monday night. lucknow, according to reports received here
nagpur, march 14: more than 150 persons have been areested in nagpur and an order under sec 144 cpc has been promulgated. a nine hour curfew has also been imposed... following a stabbing incident last night in which 1 person was killed and 2 were seriously injured.there has been some tension in the city since last sunday when communal disturbances occurred at kamptee, some 10 miles from here. about 500 muslim families from kamptee came to nagpur and it is understood this gave rise to rumors and created further tension in the city.
ahmedabad, march 13: three cases of stabbing of which two proved fatal were reported in the city today. the police are patrolling the affected areas. --- p.t.i.
secunderabad: disturbances were reported in khairatabad on tuesday night, resulting in injuries to 20 persons. on receipt of information, vellodi and reddy reached the spot and the situation was brought under control. congress and jamaat-ul-ulema workers also helped restoring law and order. many goondas have been arrested. --- u.p.i.
 ahmedabad march 13: three cases of stabbing, two of which proved fatal, have been reported in the city today. the police are patrolling the affected areas. nagpur: following an incident on monday evening, in which one person died of stab wounds and two were injured, one seriously, in the city area, police patrols were strengthened and curfew rigidly enforced in certain specified parts of the city on monday night. lucknow, according to reports received here
kaira precautionsahmedabad: an order under section 144 cpc was promulgated on wednesday for two weeks in umreth, a town in kaira district. there was communal tension there after a house was set on fire. several arrests were effected and armed police were patrolling the streets.
there were disturbances at mangal bazaar in which one man was stabbed to death and another injured. the dc and the dsp are making on the spot investigations. the police assisted by the home guards are patrolling the area, and a three day curfew has been promulgated.
 agra, march 18: a dusk-to-dawn curfew was enforced yesterday in agra for...days following a minor incident. two arson cases were reported last night, but the municipal fire brigade promptly controlled the fires.precautionary measures have been taken and armed police have been posted at strategic points. the situation this morning was normal. toi march 19, 1950
calcutta, march 19: in an incident in khardah (24 parganas) last night, about 14 miles from calcutta, three persons were killed and six injured. a number of huts in a local bustee were burnt.the same night in a similar incident in dum dum, about six miles from here, two persons were killed and two injured. a number of shops and houses were looted. the police soon arrived on the spot and brought the situation under control.
calcutta, march 19: in an incident in khardah (24 parganas) last night, about 14 miles from calcutta, three persons were killed and six injured. a number of huts in a local bustee were burnt.the same night in a similar incident in dum dum, about six miles from here, two persons were killed and two injured. a number of shops and houses were looted. the police soon arrived on the spot and brought the situation under control.
the hindu mahasabha held a meeting at the ramlila grounds, in connection with the events in east bengal. certain persons, on their way back from the meeting, made stray assaults on passers-by in the turkman gate and chauri bazar areas. the trouble lasted for a few minutes only and was immediately localized. a large contingent of armed police is patrolling the area to prevent trouble from spreading.a report on the 23rd states that apart from a stray case of stabbing in a locality near the delhi railway station, the city continued to be normal.
dohad, march 22: one person was killed in a riot here last night and four persons received injuries. additional police were rushed from godhra and by midnight the situation was under control. an order banning the assembly of five or more persons has been promulgated.
the trouble started over some posters pasted in the town which caused offence to a section of the population. some of these posters were found on the walls of the local high school and the pupils took objection to them. as a protest, they took out a procession, but on their way, when they had reached the butchers  locality, stones were thrown at them. by this time, some adult members had also joined the procession, and a clash ensued. as news of this spread in the town, there was general rioting with serious cases of arson and looting.
there were also several cases of arson and looting. the cause and precipitating event have not been specified in the lengthy report.
 lucknow, march 6: the situation in four towns in the uttar pradesh state, aligarh, moradabad, pilibhit and bareilly, was reported to be normal yesterday. there have been no further clashes. toi march 7, 1950 bareilly, march 10: there was renewed tension in the city yesterday when four people were killed in an incident in the kalibari area. police carried out extensive house searches and arrested 35 persons. heavy police patrolling continues. the total number of arrests so far for violation of curfew in the city is about 600. toi march 11, 1950 lucknow, march 15: mr lal bahadur shastri, home minister who returned here after a three-day tour of the shahjahanpur, bareilly, and pilibhit districts where communal disturbances occurred during the holi festival, told journalists to-day that the situation was quiet and control. the minister revealed that 68 persons, including muslims and non-muslims, had been killed in the three districts and at aligarh and moradabad. these figures included about a dozen killed in police firing on rioters. tracing the origin of the trouble, mr. shastri observed that in most cases coloured water was thrown on muslims, this leading to isolated incidents which spread to other localities. mr. shastri added that local authorities had taken  strong action  in the affected areas, where about 2,000 persons had been arrested.bareilly: dusk-to dawn curfew continues in bareilly city. the only incident reported was the discovery in the civil lines area of the body of a rickshaw puller who was shot dead apparently on sunday night. toi march 17, 1950 lucknow: though no incidents have been reported from shahjahanpur for the last three days, a few cases of arson have been reported from kheri, a town in the adjacent district of lakhimpur. collective fines have been imposed on some villages in shahjehanpur district by the local authorities. toi march 20, 1950
 lucknow, march 6: the situation in four towns in the uttar pradesh state, aligarh, moradabad, pilibhit and bareilly, was reported to be normal yesterday. there have been no further clashes. toi march 7, 1950 bareilly, march 10: there was renewed tension in the city yesterday when four people were killed in an incident in the kalibari area. police carried out extensive house searches and arrested 35 persons. heavy police patrolling continues. the total number of arrests so far for violation of curfew in the city is about 600. toi march 11, 1950 lucknow, march 15: mr lal bahadur shastri, home minister who returned here after a three-day tour of the shahjahanpur, bareilly, and pilibhit districts where communal disturbances occurred during the holi festival, told journalists to-day that the situation was quiet and control. the minister revealed that 68 persons, including muslims and non-muslims, had been killed in the three districts and at aligarh and moradabad. these figures included about a dozen killed in police firing on rioters. tracing the origin of the trouble, mr. shastri observed that in most cases coloured water was thrown on muslims, this leading to isolated incidents which spread to other localities. mr. shastri added that local authorities had taken  strong action  in the affected areas, where about 2,000 persons had been arrested.bareilly: dusk-to dawn curfew continues in bareilly city. the only incident reported was the discovery in the civil lines area of the body of a rickshaw puller who was shot dead apparently on sunday night. toi march 17, 1950 lucknow: though no incidents have been reported from shahjahanpur for the last three days, a few cases of arson have been reported from kheri, a town in the adjacent district of lakhimpur. collective fines have been imposed on some villages in shahjehanpur district by the local authorities. toi march 20, 1950
m mob attacked h house in calcutta

jamshedpur, april 11: lathis and stones were used in a free fight last evening between a group of rss men and some boys over the use of a plot of land that belonged to neother of them.a dozen persons were injured before the police arrived to disperse the rival parties.it is stated that the rss group wanted to use the land for their parades while the boys wanted it as a playground, though niether had the permission of the rightful owner of the land.
 deoria: april 21: four persons were injured when police opened fire yesterday to quell rioting which broke outin a fair in deoria district. twenty-seven persons received lathi-injuries and eight persons were taken into custody. toi 24 april, 1950
there was an altercation between a group of people and pathan watchmen at a cinema. large crowds had turned up at the cinema to see the premiere of an indian film and the watchmen are alleged to have handled some persons roughly for breaking the queue at the box office. resenting this treatment, they complained to the police and sent for their friends and relatives to aid them in retaliating upon the watchmen. a clash ensued.
 allahabad, may 24: twelve persons are reported to have been injured, one of whom died subsequently, in a fight in the villaeg of daulatpur, about 48 miles from allahabad, on monday. the fight is stated to have originated from the slaughter of an ox by a section of the villagers. the police intervened and restored order. an order under section 144 criminal procedure code has been promulgated in the disturbed area banning cow slaughter.  toi may 26, 1950
a communal disturbance occurred in an unspecified town in malda district. there were two coases of stabbings, and some cases of arson and looting. the police made some arrests and recovered a part of the looted property. the cause and the prec. event are not clear.
some members of the minority community were attacked by about 60 persons of amghata and 2 neighboring villages. property worth rs. 1,000 was looted. a contingent of armed forces was rushed to the spot and the situation was quickly brought under control.
a west bengal govt press note stated that a refugee mob from the neighboring areas looted the properties of some muslims of krishnagar. three muslims received slight injuries.
in a locality outside shahpur gate last night, the clothes of a servant employeed in a restaurant were, it is stated, besmirched by mistake by the owner of an adjoining paan shop. this minor incident led to a fight between the two parties in which soda bottles were freely hurled and five people were injured.
there were student demonstrations (for educational grievances) and police firing followed. these events took a communal turn following thge looting and burning of some muslim shops in jayaji chowk. the office of the provincial congress committee was also raided and the national flag torn down. the police had to resort to lathi charges in several places.a 36 hour curfew was clamped and with the police and military precutions, no incidents were reported the following day.on the 20th, mr. mishra, leader of the opposition in the madhya bharat assembly and convenor of the citizen s action committee formed in connection with the recent firing, was himself arrested.
there was a minor disturbance with the stated casualties following a rumor that a cow had been killed. the city was quiet and adequate police precautions were immediately taken.
 an official communique issued here yesterday said:  this morning, on bakr-id day, information was received at the cantonment police station that a crowd had collected in front of a house because of a rumour that a cow had been sacrificed there. the station officer immediately rushed to the spot and searched the building. he found no traces of cow sacrifice, but, in spite of the assurances to the contrary, the mob remained defiant and started throwing brickbats causing injuries to some persons, including the station officer, a head constable and a constable. simultaneously, crowds collected at two other places in the vicinity and the members of one community used fire-arms from the house-tops at three different places. meanwhile stabbing and stray assaults started and five cases of arson took place within the same area. effective measures were taken. curfew was imposed in the affected areas and the trouble was localised. the situation was soon brought under control. sixty-seven persons have been arrested so far, including...men with the guns that are said to have been used earlier. toi sept 25, 1950
 saharanpur, september 26: seven persons were injured on sunday, in a communal clash in bhansraon village in the fatehpur police station circle of lucknow district.the clash, it is learnt,followed the report of cow-slaughter in the village. the police brought the situation under control immediately. twenty-one arrests were made. toi sept 25, 1950
there was a quarrel between some sindhi refugees and local muslims for unspecified reasons, and one of the refugees sustained serious injuries. the situation was soon brought into control and sec 144 was promulgated for a week.
several were injured in a communal clash near chilmili in panka (ranka?) thana. many arrests were made and a heavy collective fine imposed on the majority community of the area. both the cause for the clash and its precip. event are unclear.
a few cases of arson and looting were also reported. since the slaughter was in contravention of the preservation of sheep and goats act, the butchers were arrested.
some houses were also burnt. no further information is reported.
one community objected to hoisting of flag by other community, led to clash. toi 1/23
jaghadari is near ambala, don t know what state this is.report says some members of a community urged people to enter a certain language in the census questionnaire, then members of the  other  community urgerd their  co-religionists  to a record a particular language. this mention of  co-religionists  makes me think this should almost be a definite.
background of anti-cow slaughter protest of past 9 days led by arjun bhagat s fast. textile workers at many of the cities mills came out on strike in support of bhagat.home minister moraji desai insisted that the law passed by the government on cow slaughter would stand. namely banning the killing of milch cows but permitting the slaughter of old and sick cattle.vasantrao golvelkar, secretary of the local hindu mahasabha was arrested. the joint board of representatives of the textile labour association condemned attempts to get the textile workers out on strike. they felt the strike was anti-working class interests.kesavial maharaj and 57 others were sentenced to various terms of imprisonment for leading processions in violation of the ban on processions, (these processions occurred a few days before the violence).though the report speaks of mob violence there are casualties given. arrest figures are unclear. toi 3/14 speaks of 20 arrests, 3/15 mentions the arrest of golvelkar but does not indicate if he was part of 20 or part of a later (unmentioned) round of arrests.no indication if an  other  (muslim) community was the target of violence.
coloured water thrown among two communities during holi. dm rushed to the area with police force. police posted in the area.casualties: 7 dead, 23 injured, (no arrests mentioned) toi 3/26.
attempted demolition of illegal constructions of refugees by municipal authorities led to attacks on police and muslims. refugees described as sikhs and displace persons. therefore, i have listed it as strong possibility rather than as definite. was not sure about how to factor the sikh presence in.casualties:5 injured. 10 arrests toi 4/29/51 ban on assembly of more than 5. armed pickets posted.
dohad is reported to be 40 km from godhra.on april 29 report of quarrel after fight between two boys. district sp calmed the situation.on may 3rd the groups assembled and attacked each other. clash is reported as communal.dm and district sp, panch mahals rushed to the spot. police posted. section 144 cr. p.c bans on assembly put into effect.no casualty reports.
police attempt to arrest arjun bagat leader of anti-cow slaughter protest. (see earlier violence in ahmedabad) led to clash with crowd. bagat eventually arrested. police had to fire on crowd, 2 killed, and 4 injured. dm banned assembly of more than 4 under section 144 cr. p.c.casualties total: 11 injured, 2 killed, 1 arrested (bagat). toi 9/6a.b. desai in a inquirty justified the police firing but said that the police could have chosen a better moment to arrest bhagat.12/7/54 judicial magistrate c.d. gosali accuses police of making up story that arjun bagat had tried to escape arrest in order to justify their  indicscriminate firing . toi 12/8/54
location unclear. ratnabari is 20 miles from karimgunj.34 people including a candidate for state assembly and a member of the karimgunj local board were arrested after participating in a mob attack on refugee coloni  at gandhinagar and netaji nagar in ratanbari.armed police pickets were posted afterwards.attack on refugees indicates possible communal overtones.casualties: 16 injured, 34 arrested. toi 1/21
location unclear. ratnabari is 20 miles from karimgunj.34 people including a candidate for state assembly and a member of the karimgunj local board were arrested after participating in a mob attack on refugee coloni  at gandhinagar and netaji nagar in ratanbari.armed police pickets were posted afterwards.attack on refugees indicates possible communal overtones.casualties: 16 injured, 34 arrested. toi 1/21
after death of maharaja of jodhpur people wanting wanting hartal enforced attack shops. police intervene. later procession mourning death of maharajah was fired upon as it violated ban orders.paper reports firing on procession and earlier attacks on shops, i have listed  attack  on shops as cause. though it is part of larger commemorations of maharaja s death.casualties: 2 0r 3 killed, half a dozen injured. account also says some killed and several injured in police firing. toi 1/29 final tally: 3 killed, 48 (including 41 policemen) injured. this is officially reported by the government. toi 1/31toi report on 1/31 gives government report that violence in jaipur had communal character. see report 7
unsure of location. mob raided congress polling station in jalaun north-west constituency.clash between congress and supporters of u.p praja party (is this religious?) during polling (unspecified).casualties: 5 arrests. toi 2/1
police had to lathi charge crowd of students protesting police firing on crowds on 1/28. see report 4.report does not specify if those agitating to commemorate the maharaja s death were hindus or muslims. so i do not know how to categories the police vs single group box.
do not know which state balrampur is in.this incident i have picked up from a report 2 years later on the court case of those accused of involvement.the prosecution that during holi a crowd of hindus had shouted anti-muslim slogans and damaged a muslim place of woship. it is of interest that one of the policemen present at the trouble appeared as a witness for the defence.57 were charged, so obviously the arrested number could have been much higher. of the 57 only 13 were convicted. no figures given of injuries or deaths (though it mentions that at least 1 policeman was assaulted). casualties: 57 arrested. toi 5/6/54.
city magistrate permitted repairs to a  sati-chabutra  to be carried out next to a mosque after an agreement between hindus and muslims of the area. when some muslims (reported as persons of other community) objected during the repairs clashes broke out.did not know how to classify cause, so have put it under miscellaneous construction.casualties: 30 arrested. toi 3/24/52.
ujjain is near indore, is that in madhya pradesh (bharat)procession taken out by ujjain nagar jan sangh to commemorate  kashmir day  was attacked with acid bulbs when passing through subji mandi (area of town).the involvement of the jan sangh and  kashmir day  makes me suspect a communal link hence i ve labelled it as a strong possibility.casualties: 24 injured. toi 6/30
not sure what state moradabad is in.quarrel over referees decision at wrestling match led to clash. could be intra-religious or communal given the significance of wrestling among communal groups.casualties: 1 killed, several injured toi 9/3
samba town 25 miles from jammu.procession and police fire at each other. clash started when police tried to arrest a wanted man (thakur raghunath singh) who was leading the procession.there is some mention of praja parishad activity in the state. given that they were agitating about the status of jammu and kashmir and wanted it to be incorporated into the indian union and under the indian constitution and as the praja parishad was allied to the jan sangh and rss i am imterpreting incidents involving them as having communal overtones.am also putting jammu down next to kashmir, as the old  state  name, when the report is filed from jammu and the place is said to be near jammu.am also recording all praja parishad incidents as linked to outside events.casualties: 1 injured. toi 11/28
a large mob attacked tehsil and police buildings and police. attempted to forcible hoist praja prasad flag.police fired in self-defence. a body of a victim taken to jammu and paraded by praja prasad and r.s.s. volunteers. the latters involvement makes me suspect communal overtones to the clash.name of a policeman who was injured (jaishi ram) and magistrate who gave the order to fire (sohan singh) does not suggest that it was a case of muslim authorities against hindu activists.casualties: lists 9 injured policemen, 1 died from police firing. could have been more injuries and dead (states  a victim  suggesting there could have been more). toi 12/16
nearly 2,000 persons imported from nearby  illaqas  and led by local parishad workers attacked the niabat office and then the police. police opened fire.no political motive or conflict specified.casualties: 2 killed, 10 injured. toi 12/30
jan sangh workers protesting against firing on praja parishad members in kashmir (see previous report).march was in defiance of a ban on public meetings.additional distric magistrate ordered use of tear gas. have included this because of involvement of hindu organisation and kashmir issue.casualties: 63 arrested. (42 released soon after). toi 1/1praja parishad was agitating for kashmir to be formally made a part of the india union and to be under the indian constitution.. there are many incidents involving the praja parishad in 1953, i have put them all in. you may decide they are not relevant.
praja parishad procession attacks police when going to meeting attended by mirza mohammed afzal (state revenue minister) and girdharilal dogra (state finance minister).is not reported as connected to praja parishad protests about the status of kashmir, but i m marking them down as related, hence yes in link to outside event.casualties: 7 injured. 1/10
exchange of fire between police and praja parishad who try to disrupt meeting of bakshi ghulam mohammed, the deputy premier.casualties: not given.
report of processionists attacking police with stones and police lathi charge and then fire.set in context of increased violence in jammu. could have praja parishad group, like in many other such incidents.if processionists were praja parishad should be police vs hindus.casualties: 4 killed, 2 injured. toi 2/1
hindu mahasabha led procession against cow slaughter stoned by  miscreants . police fire on rioting crowds.casualties: 10 killed, 11 injured, 15 arrested. toi 3/3 11 killed, 14 injured, 60 arrested. toi 3/4 moraji desai reported that riot started in tai wada in which 3 died and 12 were injured. total number arrested over the next several days were 91. am not sure if the dead and injured desai gives are only a small part of the total ( as earlier figures are larger) or are the final official.total.count.  11 killed, about 15 injured, and 36 arrested and produced in court (this could mean that rest of the 91 reported arrested by desai were not charged). toi 4/28 i am recording the higher figures. final tally: 11 killed, toi 3/4 15 injured toi 4/28 91 arrested toi 3/14
holi brawls result in minor injuries. large numbers arrested as precautionary measures.casualties: about 50 injured, 347 arrested. toi 3/2
arrests indicate police action but unclear if they were present before or after trouble started.holi procession attacked, described as clash between two communities, almost certainly could be definite (could be caste?) and chief minister shankar dayal sharma going around the city appealing for calm suggests a level of seriousness usually associated with communal tension.casualties: 44 arrested. toi 3/2
praja parishad attack police in ramban 98 miles from jammu on jammu-srinagar highway. am not sure if that came under jammu or kashmir.casualties: 1 killed, 2 injured. toi 3/3
report of clash between 2 rival groups. large numbers of arrests and presence of chief minister suggests seriousness of clash (i.e possibly communal).armed pickets and armed police patrols. curfew. section 144.casualties: 4 injured, 138 arrested. toiu 3/7
lathi charge by police on meeting of hindu mahasabha, jan sangh, and ram rajya parishad.meeting held about jammu agitation.professor ram singh, m.l.a. delhi among those arrested.casualties: over 100 injured, 9 arrested. toi 3/9toi 3/11 dr. katju, union home minister gave a statement on the police action in delhi .
when a procession of parishad agitators tried to burn a shop, police lathi charged them.casualties: 1 constable and many policement injured. toi 3/26jammu kashmir home minister, bakshi ghulam mohammed acknowledged the possibility of an inquiry into police firing in the months long parishad agitations. he gave the following casualties:14 killed and 1, 326 arrests. toi 3/30
police fire in the air to disperse illegal praja parishad procession which was calling on people not to celebrate baisakhi.casualties.: 7 arrested. toi 4/13
pro jammu praja parishad demonstrators agitating against the arrest in jammu of jan sangh leader dr. syama prasad mookerjee clashed with police after meeting held by jan sangh, hindu mahasabha and ram rajya parishad.casualties: 12 injured, 89 arrested. toi 5/13
police attacked by praja parish agitators protesting arrest of one of their workers makhan lal on the previous day.casualties: 31 (policemen) toi 5/25
praja parishad demonstrators stone police.casualties  15 arrested (including 7 jan sang workers who had entered illegally from india). toi 5/26
police used tear gas when stoned by praja parishad demonstrators. 6 jan sangh workers arrested.casualties: 6 arrested. toi 6/16
don t know what state badaun is in.almost certainly a definite case. clash reported between refugees and minority community.casualties: 4 killed, 19 injured, 49 arrested. toi 6/30
report of police firing on crowd which gathered near the juma masjid. given that sheikh abdullah s government had just been toppled and replace by one led by bakshi ghulam mohammed. this crowd could have been a political demonstration, and given that it is near a mosqes it is probably muslim. but i have neither put down politics under cause nor police vs muslim (single group) as this information is not specified.casualties: 4 killed. toi 8/13
crowd in anantag stoned police. police fired. context of new government in jammu and kashmir.casualties: 3 killed.should this be in police vs single group?
report that police lathi charged a crowd. context of violence elsewhere in kashmir and fall of abdullah s government.
report of police firing on crowd in self-defence in thal 25 miles from srinagar.context of violence elsewhere in kashmir after fall of abdullah government.
two persons injured when a crowd tried to prevent a family from slaughtering a cow at id.casualties: 2 injured. toi 8/22
trouble when durga procession passed near a mosque and people in procession were stone. police foreced to fire 2 rounds.police commissioner patna division rushed to aurangabad.casualties: 10 arrested. toi 10/19
report filed from allahabad of violence in lalganj. when a police party led by a magistrate went to lalganj to investigate violence of a few days earlier the police party was attacked. no details of the previous violence or of the group/s involved. this particular event should probably be classified under police vs single group but lack details.casualties: 12 arrested and several injured. toi 11/16
slaughter of a stolen cow led to clash.casualties: about a dozen injured, 24 arrested. toi 1/9
police arrested some holi revellers for dancing obscenely. revellers then stoned the sub-inspector to death. (have listed it as police vs hindus).casualties: 1 killed, 10 arrested. toi 3/20
naduvaltam is listed as 3 miles from calicut. don t know if it is a town or village?malabar special police had been deployed to prevent a procession playing music from passing in front of a mosque. people in procession stoned the police. dm of malabar and district sp ordered the police to lathi charge. eventually police had to open fire.casualties: 8 injured. toi 3/29
report merely states that government of rajasthan acknowledged that a communal riot had occurred at newa (near jaipur) on march 31.casualties: 19 arrested (10 hindus and 9 muslims are being prosecuted). toi 4/13
when refugees had to be moved after a fire and attempted to construct shops near idgah, sadar bazar, they were attacked by members of another community.refugees and other community, almost certainly hindu-muslim, (slight possibility of sikh?)police pickets set up.casualties: 10 injured, 28 arrested. toi 4/24
panniankara is a village 1 mile from calicut.marriage procession passed near mosque. some persons objected to playing of drums. both parties stoned each others. procession proceeeded with the protection of the armed reserve.casualties: 15 injured. toi 5/24
no clash as such here. 89 (almost certainly muslims) arrested for violating a prohibitory order. muslims had been banned from approaching within 150yards of the mosque-temple known as baberi mosque or janam bhoomi temple. the dispute was before a court. apparently there were  idols  in the site and pujas were being performed. the civil court issued an order aginst the state of up, the dm , the city magistrate, the sp of faizabad and 5 muslims restraining them from removing the idols or interfering with the pujas. the muslims went to the high court to challenge the civil courts ruling.though there is no evidence of a clash here, i thought this report would be of interest.
a hindu mahasabha worked was assaulted while drinking at a hydrant. followed by fights between groups. police restored order.casualtiesz; 3 injured, 5 arrested. toi 6/1
a dispute between a hawker and customer is reported to have sparked communal distrubances. police and magistrates controlled it within an hour.casualties: 8 injured, 60 arrested. toi 6/8
which state is mathura in.trouble after krishna idol in temple near idgah mosque was broken by unknown persons.section 144 banning processions promulgated.casualties: 3 injured, 25 arrested. toi 8/23
crowd gathered in fron of shaheed park after a  martyrs day  meeting attacks police. police respond with lathis. matrys day  makes me think this is a muslim crowd attacking the police but as it is not specified i have not listed it under police vs single group.casualties: 13 injured. toi 8/10
rioting broke out after  miscreants  had hoisted the pakistani flag over the statue of mahatma gandhi.have therefore marked it as definite.8/17 119 injured. curfew imposed8/18 number of arrested now totals 130. syed ali, collector of nizamabad, said all was quiet.revenue minister k. v. rangareddy and deputy home minister srinivas rao ekhelkar visited troubled spots and met community leaders.8/19 ekhelkar reports that 150 have been arrested.8/20 all party delegation of 9 from the state assembly was to go to nizamabad on 8/21.11/11 nagendra bahadur, member of the state revenue board announced that relief had been given to the victims of the nizamabad and gulbarga riots.casualties: 119 injured toi 8/17  113 injured stated d.g. bindu, home minister to the state assembly. toi 9/3 130 arrested toi 8/18 150 arrested toi 8/20final tally : 119 injured toi 8/17 (i m giving the higher figure) 150 arrested toi 8/20
report of minor disturbance after pakistani flag was hoisted. similar to flag hoisting in nizamabad (sere previous record).no casualties given.
riots break out after pakistani flag (like in nizamabad and hyderabad) is hoisted over ganesh temple.curfew imposed. shivkumar lal (ig) rushes to the town.casualties: 7 killed, 19 injured. toi 8/28. 7 killed, 22 injured (19 seriously), home minister d.g. bindu told the state assembly. toi 9/3 final tally: 7 killed, 22 injured. toi 9/3congress general secretary balwantraj mehta accused the communists and communalists of being the cause of the problems in hyderabad.11//11 nagendra bahadur member of the state board for revenue announced that reliedfwas paid to victims of the gulbarga and nizamabad riots. toi 11/12
anti-cow slaughter demonstration organised by go raksha samity.police and crowd clashed. tear gas used, baton and lathi charge.casualties: 1 killed, 31 injured. 86 arrested toi 9/11among the arrested were 3 prominent buisnessmen: sohan lal duggar, b.d. jhunjunwalla and muralidhar acharya.
police party escorting muharram procession fired 2 rounds to disperse crowd obstructing procession.curfew clamped down.casualties: 1 killed, 2 injured. toi 9/12
minor skirmishes between anti-cow slaughter protesters and police. all india anti-cow slaughter committee leading the demonstrations. these ten arrests occur in context of few day old satyagraha campaign against cow-slaughter. total arrests in campaign is 112casualties: 10 arrested. 10/15
 a quarrel between a group of holi revellers and two passersby at kapad galli, maharbouri, resulted in one of the latter receiving knife injuries... sattoo janu (22) was watching a group taking part in dancing and music, when someone threw colored water on him. a quarrel ensued... there were blows and stabbing. no arrests have been made in this connection.  note: does this qualify as a riot... it is probably a hindu-muslim fight, but is it a riot?
visnagar, march 14: three incidents caused a breach of the peace in mehsana district during holi festivities last week. the police fired five shots in the air to quieten two groups of warring villagers at norta in patan taluka. several people and a policeman was injured in the scuffle.[also], villagers of vasai dabhala, in vijapur taluka, attacked two policemen posted there to maintain law and order during holi. both of them were injured seriously. one person has been arrested.one villager of baludra, in the same taluka, was suspected of being an informer. it was stated that angered people cut off his nose and burned it.
visnagar, march 14: three incidents caused a breach of the peace in mehsana district during holi festivities last week. the police fired five shots in the air to quieten two groups of warring villagers at norta in patan taluka. several people and a policeman was injured in the scuffle.[also], villagers of vasai dabhala, in vijapur taluka, attacked two policemen posted there to maintain law and order during holi. both of them were injured seriously. one person has been arrested.one villager of baludra, in the same taluka, was suspected of being an informer. it was stated that angered people cut off his nose and burned it.
 allahabad, march 10: an angry crowd lynched to death a man who had stabbed three boys for splashing colour on him to-day. one of the boys, aged ten years, died in hospital.armed police guarded the hospital where the other two boys are being treated. toi march 11, 1955
the clash was a sequel to the marriage of a rajput girl to a man who belonged to the aher community. lathis and knives were freely used in the clash.

there were communal riots in damoh, 66 miles from jabalpur, over janapad sabha elections, in which 50  koris  belonging to one party attacked some persons belonging to the rival party who live in the same locality and  happened to be muslims. three houses were burnt to ashes, and a special police force was rushed from saugor. the two parties (names not mentioned) are not communally organized, both have hindu members, and are both led by hindus.
khemka and six others demanding ban on cow slaughter weretaken into custody following a clash with the police in front of parliament house.the trouble arose when the demonstrators, numbering 30, tried to break through the police cordon and get into the compound of parliament house, in defiance of section 144 cpc in force in the area. a melee followed though the police deny having resorted to a lathi charge.
a funeral procession, which was accompanied by music, was attacked/thrown stones at, near a mosque in budhvar bazaar chowk. the date of the incident and the extent of damage/injury is unclear in the report
on sept 5, a clash arose between the police and angry demonstrators who hurled stones and brickbats as a protest against the ban on an indian film (on aug 29, on the ground that it might create bitterness against a particular community).clashes that took place outside the bihar and the deshbandu talkies, included a mild lathi charge in the former case and eleven rounds of police fire in the latter case.it is unclear whether there was any hindu-muslim violence, but it seems a possibility.
a clash occurred when a group of people carrying an image of lord ganesh arrived in a locality in the city. curfew was immediately clamped down in the city.
calcutta. november 19: one person was killed and two others were injured as a result of gun shots while three others were injured by lathi blows when a clash took place in the village of pipuldah, in the harua p.s. area of 24-parganas on thursday, according to a message - upi______________________
the riot was the culmination of long-standing enmity between the two groups of villagers. recent allegations of theft and dacoity were made against one of the groups, about 70 members of which formed a riotous gang on sunday last. the rioters who carried lathis and spears, attacked members of the other group. they also looted about a dozen houses.
h mahasabha launched hartal to protest against desecration of idols at holi festival fifty iinjured in communal clash on april 7, 1956
jodhpur, may 12 (sunday): 16 persons were seriously injured when a party fired on a gathering of nearly 100 mulsims in a masjid for namaz near phlodi, about 100 miles from here, on wednesday. the assailants escaped before the police reached the spot. the injured have been brought here and admitted to hospital.
sholapur, may 28: the dm of sholapur has banned assemblies of more than 5 persons and the carrying of lethal weapons for a month in [the stated village].the ban...follows a dispute concerning a holy place in the village.sholapur, may 29: the dm banned entry into the disputed shrine, which both hindus and muslims claim as holy. it is unclear whether there was any actual violence in bahranpur.
the clash at this place 50 miles from varanasi was sparked off when a jan sangh meeting held in connection with the ramleela celebrations was pelted with stones.a pac party was sent from varanasi and a ban was imposed. banaras, september 2: one person was killed and several were injured in a clash at maunathbhanjan, 50 miles from here, on friday night.a party of the provincial armed constabulary has been sent from here and a ban imposed on meetings and processions.trouble started when a jan sangh meeting held in connection with the ramleela celbrations was pelted with stones. toi sept 3, 1956
 moradabad, september 3: shyam, a young man who was seriously injured when a mob attacked him last night at a meeting organised to protest against certain remarks contained in a book published by the vharatiya vidhya bhavan, bombay, later died in hospital. maulana qasim, one of the speakers at the meeting, has been arrested on a charge of assault and rioting. the young man had taken objection to the vituperations of the speakers at the meeting against hindus and u.p. s governor, mr. k.m. munshi, who is associated with the editorial board of the bhavan. the speakers criticised the union government and called upon muslims to insult the national flag, when shyam took objection, he was beaten up. all markets and institutions were closed today as a protest against the attack. armed police were patrolling the town. toi sept 4, 1956on sep 5th toi reported that shyam was only injured
 moradabad, september 3: shyam, a young man who was seriously injured when a mob attacked him last night at a meeting organised to protest against certain remarks contained in a book published by the vharatiya vidhya bhavan, bombay, later died in hospital. maulana qasim, one of the speakers at the meeting, has been arrested on a charge of assault and rioting. the young man had taken objection to the vituperations of the speakers at the meeting against hindus and u.p. s governor, mr. k.m. munshi, who is associated with the editorial board of the bhavan. the speakers criticised the union government and called upon muslims to insult the national flag, when shyam took objection, he was beaten up. all markets and institutions were closed today as a protest against the attack. armed police were patrolling the town. toi sept 4, 1956on sep 5th toi reported that shyam was only injured moradabad, september 7.three of the 34 persons injured in yesterday s stray stabbing incidents and rioting in the city, died in hospital last night, according to mr. s.n. mehrotra, district magistrate. more than 150 persons were arrested for violating curfew and rioting since last night. the city magistrate and the deputy superintendent of police while enforcing curfew and rounding up suspicious charcters last night are reported to have been stoned by a violent crowd of muslims which dispersed after the arrest of 12 persons believed to be agitators. armed police are patrollinbg the city and police pickets have been posted in the danger zones. trouble started yesterday when local muslims observing hartal paraded the streets wearing black badges and waving flags in protest against the publication of a book by the bharatiya vidya bhavan, bombay. toi sept 8, 1956 lucknow, september 8: six persons were kileld and 14 others injured in a riot yesterday at orai according to information received at the headquarters of the state government. black flags were hoisted over the houses in orai yesterday in protest against the publication of a book by the bharatiya vidya bhavan. a contingent of the provincial armed vonstabulary was rushed to orai from kanpur last night to assist the local authorities in restoring order. toi sept 9, 1956sept 10 toi reported orai deaths at 8 and injuries at 14, moradabad injuries at 32
 moradabad, september 3: shyam, a young man who was seriously injured when a mob attacked him last night at a meeting organised to protest against certain remarks contained in a book published by the vharatiya vidhya bhavan, bombay, later died in hospital. maulana qasim, one of the speakers at the meeting, has been arrested on a charge of assault and rioting. the young man had taken objection to the vituperations of the speakers at the meeting against hindus and u.p. s governor, mr. k.m. munshi, who is associated with the editorial board of the bhavan. the speakers criticised the union government and called upon muslims to insult the national flag, when shyam took objection, he was beaten up. all markets and institutions were closed today as a protest against the attack. armed police were patrolling the town. toi sept 4, 1956on sep 5th toi reported that shyam was only injured moradabad, september 7.three of the 34 persons injured in yesterday s stray stabbing incidents and rioting in the city, died in hospital last night, according to mr. s.n. mehrotra, district magistrate. more than 150 persons were arrested for violating curfew and rioting since last night. the city magistrate and the deputy superintendent of police while enforcing curfew and rounding up suspicious charcters last night are reported to have been stoned by a violent crowd of muslims which dispersed after the arrest of 12 persons believed to be agitators. armed police are patrollinbg the city and police pickets have been posted in the danger zones. trouble started yesterday when local muslims observing hartal paraded the streets wearing black badges and waving flags in protest against the publication of a book by the bharatiya vidya bhavan, bombay. toi sept 8, 1956 lucknow, september 8: six persons were kileld and 14 others injured in a riot yesterday at orai according to information received at the headquarters of the state government. black flags were hoisted over the houses in orai yesterday in protest against the publication of a book by the bharatiya vidya bhavan. a contingent of the provincial armed vonstabulary was rushed to orai from kanpur last night to assist the local authorities in restoring order. toi sept 9, 1956 bareilly, september 8: twenty-seven persons were injured yesterday in a clash that foillowed a procession organised to protest against objectionable passages in the book entitled  religious leaders.  brickbats and soda-water bottles were freely used in the clash. all the injured were admittedto hospital some demonstrators looted shops. the police put down the clash and an order under section !$$, cr.p.c. prohibiting the assembly of five or more persons in public places was promulgated. the majority of muslim shops were closed yesterday. toi sept 8, 1956
this very serious clash was sparked off by the damage to an idol of ganpati in mohalla motinala. minor clashes continued into the third and fourth day, when the city finally began its return to normalcy.
procession of non-amu students had a procession to protest anti-national activities at amu, when the procession passeed moti masjid on the 14th people pelted stones at them toi sept 15, 1956
stoning of ganapati procession
stoning of ganapati procession
the communal rioting started when a violent mob attacked a durga immersion procession near a mosque. some of the durga images were disfigured or damaged and shops and houses were burnt or looted.
gurgaon, march 4:three persons were injured in a clash between supporters of the congress and the jana sangh here last night. the trouble arose when congress workers were going round the town proclaiming the victory of mr. mohammad yasin khan from the ferozepur-jhirka constituency. the police rushed to the scene and restored order. no arrest has so far been made_________________
it is reported that while workers of the bharat sewak samaj were doing  shramdan  in a thickly populated part of the city, they were hooted out by some persons. there was an exchange of hot words followed by a clash.
the trouble arose when about 100 aupporters of the gowshala committee went in a procession raising slogans against the action (of constructing a wall) of the management of khalsa high school, and attempted to demolish the wall. brickbats were thrown by the rival groups.armed police has been posted at the troubled spot.earlier in the day, shop-keepers of a particular community observed hartal to register their protest against the occupation of the disputed land and construction of the wall by the school managing committee. in following days the police had to fire tear gas sheels to disperse unruly mobs in various localities.
there was an attack on a procession near a mosque, after the processionists refused to stop playing music. lathis were flung, shops attacked, and in darbar and chavat gallis, there were stabbings.72 hour curfew was imposed.
bijapur, june 13: the police opened fire on wednesday at devarajnnur, 28 miles from here to disperse two rival religious processiosn which clashed on the occasion of karahunvi/pola festival.the rival groups used stones and sticks in the clash. the number of casualties is not known.
there were clashes between supporters of two soccer teams, mohammedan sporting and howrah union, on the field of play (calcutta maidan) and the neighboring esplanade area.the trouble started when a section of the crowd started booing and catcalling during the match. there was rough play by some players, and stone throwing by a section of the spectators. the match was abandoned 5 minutes from the end with mohammedans leading 4-1. this was followed by exchange of brickbats, stone-throwing, shop looting, even stabbing.normal conditions were restored by 10 pm, though precautionary police patrolling continued.
while a centenary celebrations procession with the national flag and gandhiji s portrait was passing by a mosque in hospet (45 miles from bellary), stones and soda bottles were thrown by the processionists. some of the processionists, while returning, retaliated and in the resulting confusion some shops were looted. finding the situation uncontrollable, the police, after giving due warning, fired ten rounds.
jabalpur, september 14: four persons, including two girls, were injured in an altercation between two groups over some land in rampur, three miles from here. words led to violence and lathis were freely used till the arrival of the police. four persons were arrested.______________________(no other information is reported)
begusarai (bihar), october 7: 5 persons were killed in an armed clash between two rival groups of villagers over the demarcation of disputed piece of land in the [above-mentioned location] yesterday.a report received by the begusarai police said that the majority group of over 100 armed men, mounted on elephants and stallions, forcibly carried away two of the bodies to the burning ghat and set fire to them. the ashes were thrown in the ganga. police officials have gone to the place to restore order. -- pti
this clash was a sequel to quarrel between students and shop-keepers in allahabad earleir this year.the trouble is reported to have originated over the return of a sold electric table lamp. there was stone-throwing and arson. it is unclear whether this clash, or itsd precursor, were communal or not.
there was a clash between the police and an armed group of villagers who attacked them, after the police party had recovered a stolen bicycle and was returning to the station. the police fired six rounds. the sub inspector received spear wounds and two constables lathi injuries during the clash. the dm and the sp rushed to the scene and, after a magisterial inquiry, registered cases against 32 villagers.
police made a lathi-charge on a crowd of anti-cow slaughter demonstrators who were demanding immediate ban on cow-slaughter by the andhra pradesh government.trouble started when it became known that the municipal corporation had rejected an independent member s amendment to the resulution against cow-slaughter.
rioting broke out when stones were thrown at a procession of rashtriya swaymam sevak sang volunteers-- masjid dmanaged.curfew extended for 5 days (tho  violence took place for 3 days)

hubli banhubli, january 10: an order banning the assembly of four or more persons and the carrying of lethal weapons within a radius of two miles of gavi oni and kamari pet - two localities in hubli town - has been promulgated ... following a communal clash in these localities yesterday when two shops were looted.
coding question: not exactly marriage but romance between a 15 year old girl of one community and a college student.the members of the girl s community beat up the student after the girl was caught in his house. th student was arrested and there were meetings on both sides.the dig left for katni 30th morning but the situation was said to be under control.
dhulia feb 25: several persons sustained injuries and a number of shops were looted as passions flared after an idol of maruti was found desecrated here today. the police acted promptly to restore order. a prohibitory order was clamped on the town.
* procession was not exactly religious... it was to protest against the desecration of idols in the disputed vijaya mandir (allegedly by muslims who had used the vicinity to offer id prayers on the 5th).the processionists (comprising of members of the hindu mahasabha, the ram rajya parishad and the jan sangh) threw stones and even damaged some buildings. the clash seems to be police vrersus hindus.
the trouble began when some persons of one community started opening the door of a mosque that faced the chandra prabha temple. this was objected to by members of another community. rioting followed after an exchange of hot words. the police intervened firing teargas shells and finally opening fire and killing one.
1960 jullundur, august 28: the police resorted to a lathi charge this evening to disperse an unruly crowd of spectators when it set fire to the furniture in the grounds of a local high school where a wrestling bout between an indian and a pakistani had been arranged. the arrested were charged with arson.
a bomb was thrown on a ramlila procession as it passed in front of the jama masjid. about a dozen stabbing incidents followed the bombing. among the arrested were the imam and some trustees of the masjid. curfew was clamped on the town.there were cases of arson and stabbing the following day.by the 21st however, the situation was said to be improving and curfew was relaxed.
saharanpur, september 24: 28 persons were arrested for defiance (of orders under sect 144) and for persuading shopkeepers to close their shops in protest against the lathi charge by the police on the ramlila procession on the evening of september 22. a partial hartal was observed here yesterday in the main markets of the town. the (at least) 26 injuries reported were sustained by policemen through brickbats thrown during the lathi charge.
while a bhajan procession (which was taken out with the mutual agreement of both communities) was returning to mangalpadi after reaching the shyria temple, there were a few cases of stone throwing. the situation was kept under control however, and curfew was clamped, the collector said.
there was a fight (in which country-made fire-arms and lethal weapons were freely used) between two groups of canvassers of the forthcoming panchayati elections. among the four dead, three were burnt alive in a heap of cow dung. there is a sirsa town in haryana but don t htink it s this.
this was the 3rd distirbance of its kind in east pakistan in 10 days, after the riots at daulatpur and khulna. curfew was imposed. 2 were killed and, of the 15 hurt, 2 died later. toi 3/5/61.
disturbances followed a hartal after the rape and suicide of a college girl. curfew was imposed. 25 were hurt and 20 arrested. police reinforcements and the army were called in. toi 2/5/61.the day passed peacefully under curfew. figures are from toi 2/6/61. stray cases of violence were reported.no case of violence was reported. toi 2/7/61.
several people were hurt in renewed communal violence after a day s peace. toi 2/8/61.is this a separate riot ? i don t think so - but there was a day s peace in-between.12 were killed and 38 hurt in the 2nd spell of riots. 308 had been arrested since the previous day. toi 2/9/61.jabalpur was calm under curfew but violence spread to other areas. toi 2/10/61.the death toll rose to 20. jabalpur was reported to be quiet. toi 2/11/61.daytime curfew was lifted. toi 2/12/61.some anti-social elements tried to take advantage of the tense situation. cases of murder and robbery were reported. arrests stood at 1119. toi 2/13/61.arrests rose to 1250. toi 2/14/61.final figures are from toi 2/22/61. i think they include the 1st wave of riots too.
7 or 8 were arrested after clashes when a students  procession was stoned at a religious place. 2 of 3 stabbed were killed. disturbances in the district occurred at narsinghpur, gadarwara, kareli and gotegaon. toi 2/10/61.2 more were killed and 20 arrested. toi 2/11/61.final figures are for the district from toi 2/22/61.
2 were killed as violence from jabalpur spread. toi 2/10/62.curfew was clamped. looting and arson were reported. toi 2/11/62.final figures are for the district from toi 2/22/61.
minor incidents were reported. toi 2/10/61.curfew was in place. toi 2/11/61.final figures are for the district from toi 2/22/61.
communal clashes broke out when members of one community stoned members of another community, who were distributing alms in observance of a festival. toi 2/17/61.
police intervened when members of one community stoned a religious procession of another as it passed a place of worship. 10 policemen were among those hurt. toi 2/24/61.
i don t know if khulna is a village or town. this was reported with the daulatpur incident in east pakistan in toi 3/5/61.
i don t know if daulatpur is a village or city. figures are from toi 3/5/61 for khulna and daulatpur.
some persons opened fire on a procession of holi revellers. a contingent of 100 policemen rushed to the spot and brought the situation under control. toi 3/5/61.
communal clashes followed a holi incident. the police arrested the instigators of the trouble - the number is not reported. toi 3/5/61.is padrana a village or town ??
a youth belonging to a community beat up one of another community on 4/22/61. on 4/23/61, members of the assaulted youth s community surrounded the house of a headmaster of the other community. the police rushed to the area and fired to prevent a clash. 5 policemen and 2 of the crowd were hurt. toi 4/25/61.
police pickets were posted following communal tension. no casualties or violence is reported. toi 5/30/61.
prohibitory orders were imposed after several huts were set ablaze following rumours of cow slaughter. toi 5/31/61.
no proper reports are available due to pakistani censorship. toi 5/21/61.
no proper reports are available due to pakistani censorship. toi 5/21/61.
no proper reports are available due to pakistani censorship. toi 5/21/61.
no proper reports are available due to pakistani censorship. the report from india s deputy high commissioner put the total dead, injured and arrested in communal riots at gopalgunj at 500.
7 were killed in the agitaation over recognition of bengali as an official language of assam. houses of bengali refugees were attacked. curfew was imposed. toi 6/20/61.tension continued. the death toll rose to 10. todaay s report says that the clash was communal. toi 6/22/61.aall of cachar was declared a disturbed area after looting and arson in silchar and karimganj subdivisions. toi 6/24/61.stray cases of stabbing were reported in the district but the situation was otherwise peaceful. toi 6/28/61.curfew was extended by a week to maintain peace. toi 6/29/61.
curfew was imposed after an incident where miscreants threw stones at a muharram procession. toi 6/22/61.
curfew was imposed after communal clashes. processionists attacked a jeep belonging to members of another community when they refused to divert the jeep. no one was hurt in subsequent police firing but 32 were held. toi 8/5/61no more violence was reported. final figures are from toi 8/6/61.
the communal clash occurred on the occasion of dol gyaras festival. toi 9/26/61.
the clash occurred following declaration of results of the aaligarh muslim university elections between students at ziaauddin hostel. 8 were hurt. toi 10/3/61.6 of the students who were belaboured were hindus. toi 10/4/61.
6 were killed and 43 hurt as communal violence flared up in the city due to the incident at ziauddin hostel on 10/1/61. curfew was imposed. toi 10/4/61.no incident was reported but amu was closed for 18 days. curfew was relaxed for 2 hours. 125 had been arrested. toi 10/5/61.the total number of dead and injured were 11 and 50 respectively. arrests were up to 192. no incident was reported but curfew remained in place. students abstained from classes at agra, hapur, mathura and meerut. toi 10/6/61.the city was calm barring 2 tabbing incidents. the latest figures were 12 killed, 53 hurt and 309 arrested. toi 10/8/61.no incident was reported. 7 were arrested for yesterday s stabbing. 90 were arrested at saharanpur - bringing saharanpur arrests to 130. i have not found reports of violence there. toi 10/9/61.the total figures in 8 days of u.p. riots were - 1700 arrests, 32 killed and 100 hurt. toi 10/11/61.total deaths in u.p. rose to 35 as 3 of the injured died. arrests totalled 2,206 for u.p. toi 10/14/61.
5 were killed and 19 hurt as the aligarh violence spread. curfew was imposed. students taking out a procession were brickbatted and this led to clashes. toi 10/6/61.no incident was reported. 10 were arrested. toi 10/7/61.17 more were arrested at moradabad - bringing total arrests to 70 at chandausi, 60 at moradabad, 20 at sambhal and 12 at amroha. toi 10/9/61.
2 people were stabbed. stabbing cases were also reported from other villages. this was reported with aligarh riots in toi 10/5/61.
brickbats were thrown at a procession taken out in protest of aligaarh incidents. some students were hurt. toi 10/6/61.communal violence flared up - and killed 2 aand hurt 13. curfew was imposed. some other towns in the district also reported violence. about 50 were arrested. toi 10/7/61.7 were killed and 4 hurt on 10/7/61 - bringing total dead and injured to 9 and 17 respectively. about 350 had been arrested. precautionary measures were imposed at mathuraa, vrindaban, agra, dehra dun, khurja and bulandshahr. toi 10/8/61.4 were killed and 6 hurt when curfew was relaxed - raising the number of the dead and hurt to 13 and 25. nearly 250 were arrested - another 300 had been arrested in the past 2 days. 350 had been arrested at bulandshahr, muzzaffarnagar and saharanpur. toi 10/9/61.no incident was reported. curfew was lifted briefly. 1 more body was found. toi 10/11/61.1 person was stabbed when curfew was lifted. police attributed this to previous enmity. toi 10/12/61.
some were hurt and a few shops burnt in disturbances that spread from the aligarh incident. several were arrested. toi 10/7/61.the situation was calm - 15 had been arrested. toi 10/8/61.
5 were killed and 19 hurt as the aligarh violence spread. curfew was imposed. students taking out a procession were brickbatted and this led to clashes. toi 10/6/61.no incident was reported. 10 were arrested. toi 10/7/61.17 more were arrested at moradabad - bringing total arrests to 70 at chandausi, 60 at moradabad, 20 at sambhal and 12 at amroha. toi 10/9/61.
5 were killed and 19 hurt as the aligarh violence spread. curfew was imposed. students taking out a procession were brickbatted and this led to clashes. toi 10/6/61.no incident was reported. 10 were arrested. toi 10/7/61.17 more were arrested at moradabad - bringing total arrests to 70 at chandausi, 60 at moradabad, 20 at sambhal and 12 at amroha. toi 10/9/61.
5 were killed and 19 hurt as the aligarh violence spread. curfew was imposed. students taking out a procession were brickbatted and this led to clashes. toi 10/6/61.no incident was reported. 10 were arrested. toi 10/7/61.17 more were arrested at moradabad - bringing total arrests to 70 at chandausi, 60 at moradabad, 20 at sambhal and 12 at amroha. toi 10/9/61.
latif abdul shaikh and 4 others were waiting after an election meeting when some others arrived and started writng slogans which the former objected to. a quarrel ensued, ending with latif being stabbed by khaitan johri. no arrests had been made till reports came in. toi 2/25/62.
stray cases of assault were reported. prohibitory orders were imposed. toi 3/14/62.
this was reported with other holi clashes in gujarat. toi 3/25/62.
the date of the clashes are not clear. several areas in gujarat reported clashes - figures are for the state as a whole.5 members of a group of holi revellers were hurt in dengra when an armed mob attacked them. this was reported with the incidents above in toi 3/25/62.
an agitation, started with the publication of a book with a picture of the prophet, turned violent. a procession of 2000 men was taken out from central calcutta. minor clashes - especially with shopkeepers who refused to suspend business for the day - were reported. toi 4/12/62.
curfew was imposed after group clashes - for 3 days. no casualties were reported. police brought the situation under control. toi 4/18/62.all subsequent reports stated the situation to be under control. no cause is reported - but it seems to be a case of clashes with refugees from bangladesh. toi 4/25/62 uses the term -  communal trouble .night curfew was lifted only on 4/27/62.
this was a continuation of the malda violence reported earlier. figures are from toi 4/23/62.a total of 200 were arrested in the district.the situation was normal on 4/27/62.
this was reported with communal riots at rajshahi in toi 4/30/62, 5/1/62, 5/2/62, 5/3/62.
exaggerated reports of the communal incidents at malda resulted in anti-hindu riots in east pakistan.inflammatory speeches by pakistani political leaders were also responsible. 4 were killed at rajshahi. toi 4/30/62.figures are from toi 5/2/62 and 5/3/62.total figures for dacca and rajshahi are reported, and the duration of the riots is not clear.
a fight started inside a hotel and took a communal turn. several were arrested. toi 5/25/62.
violence also occurred at several neighbouring areas in noakhali district in east pakistan. toi 7/10/62.i am not sure if choumohani is a village.a report in toi 8/17/62 states that only 4 had been killed and that the incident was a case of  gangsterism  and not communal violence.
trouble started when a minority community attacked a janmasthami procession. 5 were killed, 14 hurt and 10 arrested. toi 8/28/62.arrests were 32 finally. toi 8/29/62.
8 were hurt and 25 arrested after clashes and police lathi charge. trouble started when a ganesh immersion procession returned via a route it had used earlier that day and members of another community who had a place of worship further down the road objected to the music. toi 9/4/62.the incident occurred on the road to karle village. 49 were arrested in all. toi 9/5/62.
a few were injured when 2 groups clashed in a ganpati immersion procession. the mob grew unruly and set fire to over 30 houses and attempted looting and stoning. toi 9/15/62.
police pickets were posted after 2 groups clashed at a ganpati immersion procession. toi 9/15/62.
rioting between 2 communities was reported. i classify this as a  strong possibility  because one of the communities might have been christians.2 were killed and 17 injured in clashes between 2 communities of fishermen. the situation was brought under control by midnight. toi 10/9/62.the death toll rose to 4. today s report put injuries at 27. toi 10/10/62.13 had been taken into custody. the situation was quiet. toi 10/11/62.
over 500 people were arrested in calcutta for violating restrictive orders relating to holi celebrations. toi 3/11/1963.
after 2 boys tried to commit criminal assault on a minor girl of another community on 7/11/63, parts of junagadh observed a hartal. clashes broke out in spite of the imposition of section 144. toi 7/13/63.tear gas was used to disperse a crowd. a dozen people, including a jan sangh leader, were arrested. toi 7/14/63.the city returned to normal on 7/14/63. toi 7/15/63.
according to ghurye, this is a hindu muslim riot. i find it a case of  police vs. single group .the processionists tried to enter a prohibited area and were blocked by the police - who were then attacked and had to use tear gas. toi 7/15/63.
2 people were killed and 9 hurt when police opened fire on rioting mobs. the riots claimed 1 life. when a ganesh puja procession was passing by a place of worship, soda water bottles and bricks were hurled at processionists, who turned into a rioting mob. curfew was imposed. toi 9/3/63.the death toll reached 7. 80 people - including 14 policemen - were hurt. 35 had been arrested for rioting and nearly 200 for violation of curfew. toi 9/4/63.curfew was relaxed and malegaon was calm. toi 9/7/63.
bongaon is a border town on the e. pakistan border. a student procession protesting against attacks on minorities in e. pakistan was attacked. i presume that the minorities were hindus (though there are later reports of attacks on christians, and indian christians, especially adivasis did  agitate  in india) and that the student protesters were therefore hindus and probably attacked by muslims? toi 1/10.dusk to dawn curfew imposed. toi 1/10police opened fire on 1/10, toi 1/11.number of casualties given as unknown toi 1/11.for full details on w. bengal riots see notes under calcutta riots.
report of factory workers clashing with neighbouring villagers. police had to open fire. toi 1/11part of w. bengal riots, hence am presuming communal nature.
trouble in calcutta started with few cases of stabbing and assault on 1/10, toi 1/11 and ended 1/15 with a few minor incidents, toi 1/16. worst days were 1/11-1/13.chief minister called for army help. army and bihar military police deployed 1/11, toi 1/12.union home minister nanda flew to calcutta on 1/12, and stated  every single muslim is precious to us and all force will be used to protect every single life.  toi 1/13. nanda also pointed out that calcutta appeared to have more hooligans than previously estimated and that they needed to be tracked better. he also said that they had the support of the moral support of influential sectors of society. toi 1/15/64.general chaudhuri arrived in city 1/13, and army given authorisation to shoot effectively. toi 1/13.chaudhuri and union cabinet secretary s.s. khera visit city.chief minister sen and union minster for mines and fuel, humayun kabir, led a peace march through calcutta on 1/16. toi 1/17.local newspaper editors at meeting with chief minister agree in the interests of communal harmony not to high light news of violence in e. pakistan. toi 1/16.casualtieschief minister stated that 52 were killed in calcutta and 325 injured. a fair number of hindus among them. of the 46 killed and 183 injured in police firing a number were muslims. note that most of those killed were in police firing. nanda stated that 4,000 were arrested in the city. killed 52injured 32546 killed and 183 injured by police.4,000 arrested. toi 1/15.nanda stated that 150 died in the west bengal riots of whom 80 were muslims. 600 were injured of whom 162 were due to police action (this number of injured is at odds with sen s figures, whereby 183 injured in calcutta alone by police firing). of those injured by police firing most were hindus.of the remaining 438 injured 305 were muslims and 133 non-muslims (note that in non-police firing the injured are largely muslims). of the 438 non-police firing injured325 were from calcutta (sen also quoted 325 injured and then said 183 injured by police....am not clear if the 183 injured by police according to sen are in addition to the 325 or from the 325. nanda specified the 325 as part of 438 non-police injured). nanda also listed 7,000 arrested of whom 4,000 were in calcutta.nanda s figures for w. bengal.150 died (80 muslims)600 injured (162 by police leaving 438: of the 438: a) 133 non-muslims, and 305 muslims b) 325 in calcutta 7,000 arrested of whom 4, 000 from calcutta. toi 1/15/64.worst affected areas were calcutta, and 24-parganas and nandia districts. many towns listed as curfew bound but with no report of group clashes so have not included them.context of riots was communal violence in e. pakistan and refugees fleeing to india.
part of w. bengal riots4 stabbed of whom 3 died. toi 1/121 knife attack reported and 1 body found. toi 1/13.700 arrests. toi 1/13given that only one attack reported on 2nd day i am categorising event as 1 day. but is clearly embedded in larger event.
group clash. toi 1/12part of w. bengal riots.
cases of arson and assault reported, police had to open fire in bongaon police station. no further details. toi 1/13part of w. bengal riots, see calcutta report.
report of arson in jadavpur. also a report of a group clash in jadavpur p.s. (am presuming it is the same place) in which 2 killed. police opened fire. toi 1/13police open fire when arson and looting occured. toi 1/13part of w. bengal riots.
cases of arson and assault reported. toi 1/13.part of w. bengal riots.
cases of arson and assault reported. toi 1/13.part of w. bengal riots.
cases of arson and assault reported. toi 1/13.part of w. bengal riots.
report of 1 killed in group clash. toi 1/13.part of w. bengal riots.
police had to open fire in dakindari (area of dum dum) several times to separate rival groups. toi 1/13.part of w.bengal riots.
police opened fire to dispers mob burning and looting houses. toi 1/13.part of w. bengal riots.
mob attacks police station in village of dum dum p.s., police fire and 2 killed. toi 1/14.previous report of violence in dum dum and this event seem to have occurred in two different locations so i have recorded them as 2 events, but perhaps they could be merged.report also of 3 bodies found in railway carriages. toi 1/14.part of w. bengal riots.
police attacked by anti-social elements. open fire, 2 injured. toiu 1/14.am listing it as strong probability as set in context of w. bengal riots.
2 killed in group clash. police open fire, 2 injured. toi 1/15.part of w. bengal riots.
police went to arrest mohd salauddin (junior) chief administrative office of anjuman_mufidul-islam, and another under defence of india rules and were attacked. 2 police injured and 25 arrested for rioting. toi 2/17.
part of orissa riots. see rourkela record. toi 3/23 reports arson and looting.
part of bihar riots in ranchi. adivasis against muslims.toi 3/28 reports troops firing on adivasi mob in bano-insimdega sub-division s thana headquarters.2 killed.see record number 29.
rumours that attempt to sabotage refugee special going to manna transit camp and rumour of attempt to poison refugees food are reported as causing incidents along the route of the train. toi 3/20. toi 3/20 orissa military police deployed in rourkela, , jharsuguda, ratgangpur and brajarajnagar. in rourkela 1 died and 6 injured in stabbings. 30 arrested (unclear if in all towns or rourkela).toi 3/21 reports 28 dead, 59 injured and 99 arrests. state government calls for army help. section cr.p.c promulgated banning gatherings of more than 5.toi 3/22 reports 4 more killed in rourkela bringing death toll to 53 in last 24 hours. 111 injured.army has moved in town. ashoke sen arrives from delhi.toi 3/23 reports army had to fire a couple of times in the city. total death toll now listed as 62, and 250 arrests reported. unclear if 250 are all new arrests or old ones included.toi 3/27 reports arrests have exceeded, unclear if for rourkela or for orissa.orissa riotscertain districts reported as troubled. sambalpur and sundergarh. toi 3/23, 3/25toi 3/25 reports more troops called up due to tension in the 2 above districts. toi 3/23 reports that orissa military police that had been sent to help settle the w.bengal communal tensions of january now had to be rushed back to orissa.toi 3/24 reports that andhra sent armed military police to help orissa.toi 3/24 bihar reports that adivasis involved in sundergarh riots were crossing into bihar s ranchi district.toi 4/8, 4/9 and 4/18 reports congress and psp exchange accusations that the other had been involved in organising the riots.
after communal violence broke out police had to impose curfew. violence broke out in jute mill area toi 3/20.casualties: 7 dead, 19 injured and 18 arrested. all 7 dead were from the minority community. toi 3/20. final toll: 9 dead, 28 arrested. toi 3/21. 21 more arrested under defence of india rules on 3/25, toi 3/26.
toi 3/21 reports 6 killed and several injured in stray cases of stabbing and incendiarism. section 144 cr.p.c. had been enforced.toi 3/22 4 more die due to police firing and bring death toll to 51.toi 3/24 chief minister sahay, education minister narain singh, chief secretary s.j majumdar and ig akhoun were camping in the city. city reported as calm.
for account of causes and officials involved see report on rourkela. incidents here part of orissa riots.toi 3/19 reports injuries. town is one of 4 described as communally tense.
part of orissa riots. see rourkela record for report on causes and officials.toi 3/20 reports cases of arson. said to be communally tense.toi 3/21 army deployed. 8 arrested following more arson.
part of orissa riots. see rourkela record. toi 3/23 reports arson and looting.
part of orissa riots. see rourkela record. toi 3/23 reports arson and looting.
part of orissa riots. see rourkela report. toi 3/23 reports arson and looting.
part of orissa riots. see rourkela record. toi 3/23 reports arson and looting.
toi 3/24 reports bihar s claim that adivisasis involved in violence in orissa crossing into bihar.toi 3/26 reports that ranchi district now a tense place. many adivasis christians upset by reports of attacks on christians in e. pakistan. but report does not say all adivasi agitators were christians, so probably hindus also join christians against muslims. adivasis described as roaming around threatening isolated minority communities.toi 3/27 reports troops (am presuming police) rushed as precaution to ranchi.toi 3/28 reports that police fire on violent adivasi mob at bano insimdega sub-division in ranchi killing 2. and troops fired on adivasis in jaldega village in bano thana killing 1.adivasi violence in orissa and bihar caused centre to convene meeting of bihar, orissa, w.bengal and madhya pradesh state governements to plan coordinated responses to communal violence. toi 3/29
toi 3/27 reports 1 shot and 3 arrested after grenade thrown during curfew relaxation. troops fired.number of arrests reported as exceeding 500. unclear if this is for rourkela or for orissa.
part of bihar adivasi anti muslim riots.toi 3/28 reports troops firing on mob in jagannathpur and barkjamda. 2 killed and 6 injured for both places.
part of bihar riots in ranchi, adivasis against muslims.see record 30 for casualties.toi 3/28 reports troops firing on mobs. i presume troops here means police.
toi 10/19 and 10/20 reports clashes due to molestation of women by men of another community. (have interpreted molestation as eve teasing but could of course even be rape).police sent from baroda (hence my supposition that this town is in gujerat) and kaira.toi 10/22 describes clashes as communal.
toi 12/22 reports two armed groups clashing in village. they first attack police. police fire 2 killed and 1 injured, also 1 policeman injured. police in village reinforced.
2 policemen were among those injured when a crowd of jan sangh supporters ambushed a muslim league procession. toi 3/14/65.1 of the 2 injured in police firing died subsequently. the clash occurred when members of a community attacked a procession of another community taken out to celebrate the victory of their camdidate in the general elections. toi 3/20/65.
section 144 was imposed after communal clashes. toi 4/17/65.
trouble arose when some members of a muharram procession tried to force their way into a kotwali and their entry was barred. 16 policemen were among those hurt - totals are not reported.
clashes broke out when the police ordered the stoppage of beating of the chest by shia processionists numbering over 500. when the crowd refused and threw stones at the police, the police resorted to a lathi charge. toi 5/13/65.
12 were hurt in clashes in the piprapur area. prohibitory orders were imposed after 8 houses were set ablaze. toi 5/17/65.3 people had been dragged out of the parcel express and killed by rioters.  a trivial incident  was said to have started the violence. 223 had been arrested till this report. toi 5/18/65.final figures are from toi 5/17/65 and toi 5/19/95.
toi 9/2/65 12 places of worship burnt down by mobstoi 9/3/65  shoot at sight  orders rioting began following reports of alleged misbehavior by a  drunken  youth at  the market near a place of worship 50 cases of arson reported during the daytoi 9/4/65 police opened fire twice to disperse violent mob of 200 personstoi 9/5/65 central peace committee formed to restore peace in city-- committee consists of representatives of various political parties and communitiestoi 9/6/65 3 police officers and 5 head constables awarded certificates for discharging their duties  during riot
a place of worship was desecrated as a result of the riot. the local congress mandal president and some jan sangh leaders were arrested. toi 3/11/66.it is not clear if bagewadi is a town or village. also, the second time, it is spelt as  bangewadi  - with an  n .
2 were killed and a few hurt in clashes between refugees from east pakistan and the lalung tribesmen in the khasi hills. 50 huts belonging to the refugees were burnt. toi 3/22/66.
tension had been prevailing following the slaughter of an animal on 5/18/66. violence erupted on 5/21/66 and police opened fire. several were hurt. toi 5/27/66.
the police opened fire on a group clash that occurred when a ganesh immersion procession reached a place of worship. toi 10/1/66.the situation was under control on 10/1/66. toi 10/2/66.
11 people were killed on 9/30/66 at a procession taken out demanding a ban on cow slaughter. police firing claimed 2 of those lives. 40 were hurt and curfew imposed. toi 10/1/66.the situation was under control on 10/1/66. toi 10/2/66.the final death toll is from toi 10/3/66. curfew was relaxed on 10/2/66.
violence spread from akola district and looting and arson was reported. the police brought the situation under control. toi 10/2/66.
anti cow-slaughter demonstrators turned violent on being harangued by swami rameshwaranand to enter the parliament and prevent ministers from leaving. the police had to open fire. toi 11/8/66.
curfew was imposed at metiabruz and parts of garden reach in calcutta after group clashes. trouble began at paharpur when a procession for the immersion of the goddess kali was attacked by people coming out of a place of worship. the police fired and burst tear gas shells to disperse the mob. toi 11/16/66.
* two groups clashed following a quarrel between two boys in the feelkhana locality. members of both groups set thatched houses on fire, damaged a tea stall and threw stones before the police dispersed them. (toi 4/10/67)
* looting, arson and rioting broke out on polling day where maqsood ali khan (congress) and chandrakant gurbasappa (jan sangh) were in contest for an assembly seat. one of the causes for the tension is stated to be that some polling agents insisted on identifying persons in  burkha  as women voters. (toi 2/16/67)
* trouble arose when a procession was taken out for the burial of  tazias  at bhairon, clearly a muharram procession. nearly 20 members of the  majority community  and 30 policemen were injured. a curfew was imposed from dusk to dawn on the third day, when five new cases of stabbing and brickbatting were reported. (toi 4/22/67, 4/23/67, 4/24/67)
* trouble started following a gambling dispute; the riots may have had  political machinations  behind them. a dusk to dawn curfew was imposed, and the incident was clearly described to have been  communal  in nature, as the gambling den was located in a mixed locality. a stray incident was reported the day after from beliapur, but was not communal in nature. (toi 5/29/67, 5/30/67)
* violence broke out between protagonists and opponents of urdu. curfew was imposed on the city for three days. (toi 8/23/67, 8/24/67, 8/25/67)
* violence erupted in srinagar after two-week long tension over the abduction of a kashmiri pandit girl. processions were taken out in protest and stone-throwing sparked off the riot. curfew was imposed on srinagar for four days, and this was the most serious riot reported in 1967 up till this time. trouble broke out in jammu on august 26, related to the srinagar incidents. (toi 8/25/67, 8/26/67, 8/27/67, 8/28/27, 8/29/27)
* violence erupted in srinagar after two-week long tension over the abduction of a kashmiri pandit girl. processions were taken out in protest and stone-throwing sparked off the riot. curfew was imposed on srinagar for four days, and this was the most serious riot reported in 1967 up till this time. trouble broke out in jammu on august 26, related to the srinagar incidents--a one day curfew was imposed on the city, and many shops in both cities remained closed. (toi 8/25/67, 8/26/67, 8/27/67, 8/28/27, 8/29/27)
9/18 report of idol desecration sparks violence. police tear gas, lathi charge. 1 killed, 36 injured of whom 29 police. arrests 170. reinforcements sent. army stood by. 9/19 minor incidents (1 arson attempt). ar toi 9/20.9/20 arrests 300, of whom 230 for curfew regulations and fined rs. 50. toi 9/219/21 report of stray incidents. no details so i have not added another day to riot. toi 9/22.have given this as a definite case, as on 10/20 chief minister v.p. naik was petitioned by muslism leaders about these riots. see record 14 and toi 10/11.10/20 sadiq ali general secretary of all indian congress committee claims maharashtra riots not spontaneous but organised. toi 10/21.
9/24 2 arrested for stealing and slaughtering a cow. in violence police fire, 4 killed, 9 injured and 155 arrested. curfew. section 144 cr.p.c. toi 9/25s.p. mohani called collector nasik in toi 9/25 but district magistrate in toi 9/26.have listed this as definite case as chief minister v.p. naik was seen by maulana abdul hamid nomani, president of the muslim consultative board of maharashtra and g.h. banawalla general secretary muslim league maharashtra. they wanted probe into maharashtra riots in ahmednagar, sholapur and malegaon. 10/1110/20 sadiq ali, general secretary all india congress committee said riots were not spontaneous but organised. toi 10/21
10/3 rumours of sacrilege (therefore have put it as desecration unknown). also students in violation of prohibitory orders attempt to take out procession (not specified as religous, but likely). so possibly 2 causes. police fire. 2 killed, 1 injured. total 30 policemen, including kaul, injured. toi 10/4.10/4 police lathi charge. 2 more die from earlier violence. total dead upto 4 now. renzoo and dhar visit the city.no link made to previous violence, but that background is there.10/22 central government sets up commission under supreme court judge to inquire into  regional imbalances  such a probe had been a demand of kashmir pandits. this was decided after chief minister g.m. sadiq met the prime minister, indira gandhi. toi 10/23.11/10 at a meeting in bombay, g.m. sadiq claimed that the violence in kashmir was not communal. toi 11/11.
10/7 football match between punjab university and jammu and kashmir university leads to violence (not clearly communal, but strong chance). police fire, 1 killed, several injured. toi 10/8toi 10/10 curfew lifted.
10/7 all india urdu poetry symposium in jammu. mob attacks school where event held. police fire on mob (suggest hindus in jammu disrupt muslim-urdu event?). toi 10/8.
10/15 police fire on violent mob as sursand in sitamarhi sub-division of muzaffarpur distrcict. trouble was a sequel to group clash after attack on durga immersion procession. casualties unclear. 3 killed in earlier stabbings. report also says  the people killed  in police firing. several injuries, including police. 40 arrests. meetings and processions banned. military police rused to sursand from muzaffarpur. toi 10/16
11/14 mahaviri jhanda procession taken by devotees of mahvir hanuman passing through rampurkhas village when trouble started. 37 houses set alight. 5 killed. 3 injured. processionists claim attempts made to interfere with procession. district magistrate, sp and armed police force rushed to village. toi 11/15.
* the trouble started out as an anti-sheikh abbdullah demonstration. the kashmiri leader was to give a speech to the provincial jamait-ul-ulaima, when demonstrators from several political parties, grouped together under the  save kashmir front,  began to protest abdullah s arrrival. yet, the reporting of this case seems a little suspicious and seems to point to more than just kashmir-related violence. the article reports that rioting broke out in  several points  in the city. it is unclear what the precipitating cause was in the other locations; it is, however, significant that the article makes mention of  two communities.  a curfew was clamped on the city that continued for the next four days. (toi 1/28/68)
* rioting and violence broke out when a group of holi revellers clashed with  another group of people  over the splashing of colours, in the muslim locality of has-ki-satti. a curfew was imposed on the city for a period of three days and shoot-at-sight orders were issued. during these three days, police opened fire on armed mobs in the riot-torn areas of the city--nobody was injured. the officials were transferred a few days following the prime minister s visit to the city. (toi 3/17/68, 3/18/68, 3/19/68, 5/1/68)
* a series of incidents were reported on this day following the bombay municipal elections--however, only the above incident from the madanpura area of the city has been reported, since it involved muslim league supporters clashing with congress supporters. (toi 3/28/68)
*  communal violence flared up in tinsukia for unknown reasons--a curfew was imposed on the industrial town. the rioting on the secoond day broke out when mobs openly took to the streets in defiance of the curfew; police pickets moved in to counter the groups. (toi 3/31/68, 4/1/68)
* stabbing incidents were reported from around the city, and curfew was imposed on the chowk, kotwali, khuldabad, attarsuiya and muthigan areas. tension mounted in the localities and 10 companies of pac were rushed to the city to support the local police. curfew was extended for another two days. it was later reported that on april 14, a communist champion of muslim rights was stabbed in a muslim locality. this is what reportedly sparked off the events that followed. (toi 4/18/68, 4/19/68, 5/1/68)
* this outbreak of  communal violence  started as a sequel to a previous incident where a mutton dealer tried to assault a boy from  another community.  a dusk-to-dawn curfew was imposed on the city for a week. ther was large-scale arson and destruction of property on the second day of rioting. (toi 4/20/68, 4/21/68, 4/22/68)
* the trouble broke out after reports of a cow being stabbed in front of a bakery led to rioting and looting. curfew was imposed on the city for three days. (toi 6/9/68, 6/10/68, 6/11/68)
* this riot along with the violence in aurangabad marked a very tense period for maharashtra. maharashtra cabinet members travelled to the troubled regions to try and keep the peace. the rioting started out in two slum areas of the city and then spread to other localities; the cause of the outbreak was unknown. curfew was imposed on the riot-torn and affected areas for all five days. some of those killed died in police firng on the mobs. (toi 6/11/68, 6/12/68, 6/13/68, 6/14/68, 6/15/68)
* a stabbing incident led to some arson and stone-throwing; two days later, three legislators of the majlis ittehadul muslimeen and the president of the city jana sangh, were taken into custody under the preventive detention act. (toi 6/3/68)
* the trouble broke out when a dead body was buried in the deceased s home in veraval instead of at the burial ground in the twin-town of prabhas patan. (therefore, the figures reported above are combined figures for both towns.) later that night, a boy was reportedly stabbed. some local press reports claimed that three cows had been burned, although this charge was termed  completely baseless  by the additional district magistrate of junagadh. arson, looting and mob violence were curbed by a two-day long curfew that was imposed on veraval. (toi 11/27/68, 11/28/68, 11/30/68)
 communal clash over a funeral procession in the ranipura-daulatganj area....the trouble started when the procession with the body of avantilal sonkar reached the hathipala-jawaharmarg crossing, where chappals ans stones were hurled at it by members of another community. the processionists retaliated. sonkar had died of injuries sustained in a clash between two gangs of gamblers of different communities....the funeral procession was ordered by the district magistrate on the strict understanding that the processionists would not cause any breach of the peace. toi 1/2/69
 ...the police opened fire to disperse violent groups of people who clashed at kendrapara, a sub-divisional town in cuttack district, according to official reports reaching here tonight....officials said the trouble sbroke out after some miscreants allegedly stoned a procession carrying an image of the goddess saraswati for immersion. the police opened fire when the bursting of tear-gas shells and lathi-charge failed to control the situation. toi 1/31/69
 ...following violence in connection with the holi festival. toi 3/6/69 it is stated that the trouble started over the clebration of holi. some workers, who did not report for duty on wednesday though the milles were open, clashed with another group who did.  toi 3/8/69
 the trouble started after a holi procession was attacked by some people.  toi 3/6/69 only a few weeks ago, riots had occured at telenipara over the celebration of the holi.  toi 4/1/69
 two persons were killed in police firing at hubli today, following clashes between two communities when revellers went about sprinkling colours on passers by....the police said when a rangpanchami procession reached siddhaveerappa peth, some people of the locality objected and the two groups clashed. this was followed by arson and looting.  toi 3/9/69
 nearly 25 persons, including ten policemen. were injured in a violent clash between a 3,000 strong mob and armed policemen near kalipur tower in ahmedabad this evening....the trouble began when a police vehicle dashed against a hand-cart carrying religious scriptures of a minority community. a small crowd standing nearby demanded apology from the policemen for the alleged  sacrilege.  tempers were frayed as the policemen refused to oblige the mob which soon swelled to thousands.  toi 3/11/69
 it is reported that supporters of two rival unions clashed within a jute mill which had opened today after a period of closure. although the dispute over the terms of the settlement was confined to the mill, considerable tension was generated in jagadal which is a mixed industrial locality.  toi 3/20/69
 the clash took place over the cutting of a branch of a banyan tree to enable the muharram procession to pass. while branches of two trees had been cut, the owner of the other tree objected to it. an agreement was ultimately reached that if the passage of the procession was obstructed by the branch, arrangement would be made to make room for the procession to pass. but as soon as the processionists reached the spot, they became violent and violated the agreement and an altercation ensued with the police personnel escorting them. the processionists became  very violent...   [and police lathi charged and then fired tear gas  in response ]toi 3/30/69
trouble started when two groups of students clashed near a cinema house in the evening when the moharram procession was passing through. some persons strated looting shops and set them on fire.  toi 3/31/69

 the police fired nearly 170 rounds and burst 125 tear-gas shells to quell communal clashes in the telenipara and paikpara areas of bhadreshwar police station in hooghly district late last night and early this morning.  toi 4/1/69 according to latest reports, 12 people were killed in the incident which began suddenly on sunday night. eleven of them died in police firing....some jute mills and other factories in the affected areas have remained closed for the last three days.  toi 4/2/69
 quiet has returned to temghur village and adjoining localities, three miles from bhiwandi on the bhiwandi-kalyan road, following a clash between two groups of people on wednesday night. seven people belonging to both the parties were arrested. the clash was caused by the refusal of a truck driver to give a free lift to a group of people. the driver pleaded inability because of defective brakes and proceeded to kalyan. the seven people, stated to be drunk, were alleged to have thrown stones, and two people, of temghur village, were injured. residents of temghur village rushed in large numbers and stone-throwing was resorted to by both sides. a place of worship was damaged by the stone. toi 5/31/69
 bhopal, may 29: curfew was reimposed as a precautionary measure tonight on barnagar where one person was stabbed to death in a communal clash last night....the police are...taking no chances in view of the tension in the area because of the forthcoming by-election to the state assembly on sunday in ujjain. a keen contest is expected between the congress candidate who faces mr. mahadev joshi backed by the jana sangh and the rajmata of gwalior. it is a prestige seat for the svd which had won the seat in the last general election. the mla was subsequently unseated through an election petition. toi 5/30/69
clash between  two groups of the same community  in watgunj in south calcutta over the interpretation of religious practices. toi 6/2/69
 meanwhile, mr. gangaram tiwari, state labour minister, and the district magistrate, described as  incorrect and unfounded , a press statement by mr. hukam chand kachwai, m.p., yesterday claiming that nearly 40 to 50 people had so far been killed in the current disturbances. toi 6/9/69
 strong police and r.a.c. pickets have been posted at all strategic points in the city, in view of the tension following the death of a 13 year-old boy belonging to a minority community in a truck accident yesterday. the truck driver, it is alleged, was dragged out of his vehicle and assaulted by an infuriated mob. some policemen, who went to the spot later, were also allegedly assaulted. the driver, whose condition was reported to be serious when he was taken to the hospital yesterday, is said to be better now. truck operators took out a procession today, demanding stern action against those persons who allegedly assaulted the driver.  toi 6/15/69
 peace has been restored in bhiwandi, 5.6 kilometres from thana, following two incidents of mob violence. the trouble originated when a married women complained of indecent behaviour by two boys of another community. it had a repercussion in front of an urdu school when school-going oys came to blows and stones and aerated water bottles were freely used on tuesday morning. mr. bhaskar mali, a jana sangh worker, and four boys were injured. two policemen were manhandled by the crowd. two incidents of assault near a cinema house were reported after tuesday midnight. members of the bhoi community were attacked.  toi 7/10/69
 six people were injured in a clah between two groups at ponnani near here [malappuram] yesterday, according to official reports....reports said about 30 jana sangh workers took out a  jatha  in the town last evening shouting  anti malappuram  slogans. some people asked them not to shout slogans when the processionists reached near a palce of worship. following their refusal to do so, there was a tussle between the two groups. those who objected to the shouting returned with reinforcements from nearby azhikkal and attacked a transport company and several shops in the area, the reports said. a tense situation prevailed till the early hours of the morning when police reinforcements reached the coastal town from the district headquarters of malappuram.  toi 7/18/69
 the deputy chief minister, mr. jyoti basu...said the trouble started at kanki village where some shops were looted, houses burnt and their inmates assaulted on tuesday morning. two people were killed and seevral injured. the rioters dispersed on the arrival of the police.  unfortunately, the victims belonged to a minority community while the attackers belonged to the majority community. this factor might have given a communal complexion to the developments that followed.  retaliation took place in bidhanpalli, nizampur and sagarpur village whose residents were mostly refugees from east pakistan. in these incidents, two people were killed, several injured and many houses burnt. the retaliattion against these incidents took place in madhusikar and baishbigha villages where five were killed, besides injuries to some. there were several cases of arson....the immediate cause of the trouble, according to mr. basu, was the imposition of a fine of rs. 500 by some people of kanki village on a person for an alleged criminal assault by his brother on a woman three months ago. the compensation was not paid, and two groups were formed in the village. on monday, a leading member of one of the groups was assaulted and on the following day there was widespread rioting.  toi 7/25/69
 curfew was clamped on mhow, a cantonment town 21 kilometres from here [indore] this afternoon, following communal riots....the police authorities said communal frenzy had gripped mhow since early this morning and schoolboys collected near the hari phatak locality and began stoning passing vehicles. arson, looting and other forms of violence soon broke out. toi 8/23/69 with the arrest of 17 people in sarwan mohalla, the total number of arrests in the past two days reached 111....this is the first time that communal frenzy has seized this cantonment town since its establishment in 1818. toi 8/24/69

 two people were killed and seven injured in a clash between two sections of people last night at ahmedpur, a village about 64 kms. from here, according to official information received here [bhopal]. official sources said that in the widespread arson that followed four houses were gutted. among the injures was a police constable. additional police was rushed from bhopal and the situation was officially stated to be under control.  toi 8/28/69
 the police burst tear-gas squibs, made a lathi-charge and fired a round in the air in the charminar area this afternoon to disperse a violent crowd of muslims. the muslims, who were returning in a procession from the mecca masjid after prayers, saw a jeweller s shop kept open while most other shops were closed in protest against the jerusalem mosque blaze. enraged, they started throwing stones at the shop. the assistant commissioner of police arrived at the scene and persuaded the processionists to move forward. but meanwhile there was a shower of stones on the procession from the terraces and roofs of buildings nearby. while tension mounted, the crowd entered patel market and tried to set it on fire. this was foiled when the fire brigade and people of the area rushed to the spot. the mob then stoned a police jeep and carried away cloth worth thousands of rupees. while leaving, they set fire to the shop. according to official sources, two assistant commissioners of police, two subinspectors and a constable were injured in stone-throwing. several others sustained injuries, on account of stones and lathis. newsmen visiting charminar found the entire area littered with stones. the mecca masjid protest gathering was nearly 100,000 strong. most shops of all communities were closed. the police have intensified patrolling in the area.  toi 8/30/69
 members belonging to families of two different communities were involved in the clash which was a sequel to the alleged teasing of a girl belonging to one community by a boy of the other recently.  [possibly communal, possibly not]
 the situation in vidisha, district town 50 miles from here [bhopal] was officially reported  quiet  today after yesterday s communal clashes. except for a case of stabbing no incidents have been reported since the promulgation of night curfew yesterday evening....in yesterday s clashes, which were sparked by an attack on a boy allegedly indulging in eve-teasing near a place of worship, a dozen persons were injured and several shops and houses set on fire. toi 9/15/69
 the trouble started when a group of people stoned cows and women going to a place of worship. the other group retaliated with brickbats.  toi 9/19/69 the trouble, sparked by a violent clash between sections of people in the jamalpur area yesterday took an ugly turn this morning [19th] when groups of agitated people roamed the streets, setting fire to shops and throwing stones....the gujarat government ordered an inquiry into the incident of attack on the place of worship in which 13 people were injured, four of them seriously. the mahant of the jagannath temple, sevadasji, gave up his fast after a 15 member delegation, led by mr. a.m. peerzada, called on him to apologise got the  unfortunate incident.  times of india 9/20/69army and bsf called in on the 20th to try to control the escalating violence.  the by-election to the municipal corporation scheduled for tomorrow will now be held later.  toi 9/21/69 tension prevailed in the suburban areas and posh localities also where stone-throwing crowds and a field day in the absence of any police force.  toi 9/22/69 the death-toll has mounted to more than 600. official sources have confirmed 350 deaths, as reported to mr. y. b. chavan during his one day visit. toi 9/25/69the first curfew relaxation on the 23rd was a disaster, with 30 deaths occurring in three hours, but  since then the army took charge of the entire city enforcing curfew ruthlessly. the city has been comparatively calm for the last two days. toi 9/26/69 the police records indicate that 468 persons have died in the worst ever communal riots in ahmedabad. the police have arrsted 1,672 persons for committing substantive offences like committing arson, loot and murders and registered 848 offences for rioting.  toi 10/29/69
the death roll mounted to eight today as the patrolling army and police personnel opened fire in two areas where the mob defied curfew restrictions and set aflame shops and a place of worship. toi 9/24/69

rioting broke out when students went round calling for a hartal, presumably over the ahmedabad violence, gondal is 40km from rajkot
 section 144 cr.p.c. was clamped on junagadh and a surrounding area of eight kilometres shortly after noon today, following diturbances. the order will remain in force until friday [26th]. some incidents of arson and looting occurred this morning. a few places of worship were reported damaged. the trouble began with incidents of stone-throwing on dhal road.  toi 9/25/69 a peace committee with several prominent citizens as members was formed here yesterday to help restore normalcy in the area. the police have arrested 50 persons as a precautionary measure.  toi 9/27/69
 army personnel opened fire twice here today to disperse violent crowds, injuring two persons. this brings the numbered of injured to four in the disturbances which spread to anand yesterday. about 200 people have been rounded up for violating the curfew imposed in the town yesterday evening.  toi 9/26/69
mob attack on train passing through mehsana
three incidents of arson and looting were reported from amreli today. according to uni the army has been called out.  toi 9/30/69

 some tension prevailed in sarkhej village where a call for a hartal had been given in protest against the detention of 29 people on friday night. these men had been arrested in a clash when an alleged attempt was made at midnight to set fire to a place of worship. however the hartal was withdrawn after a meeting of the local police committee. the sarpanch of the village, mr. durgashankar trivedi, asked the people to help the army maintain peace. the detained people were released.  toi 13 oct, 1969
 ...an immersion procession with the image of durga clashed with a police party in the vicinity of a mosque. immediately after the clash several people were stabbed and some huts set on fire in the area. toi 10/20/69 mr ray [the wb home secretary] who visited the affected area today with the state s acting inspector-general of police, mr. maswood, said the riot was  pre-planned . otherwise there was no reason why the procession should stop in front of the mosque. mr ray said he had found no confirmation of the allegation that brickbats were hurled at the procession from the mosque. of course, some brickbats were thrown subsequently when some people from the procession tried to break open the collapsible gate of the mosque, but that was purely in self-defence. the miscreants could not get into the mosque.  toi 10/22/69officially confirmed death toll 28, unofficial reports of 35 toi 10/31/69
 one person was killed and some were injured in police firing near lat bhairon temple here tonight following clashes between two groups of people. firing was resorted to when a lathi charge proved ineffective. more than 12 police personnel were injured by brickbats thrown at them by the two groups belonging to two different communities. toi 12/3/69 a night curfew will be clamped from 11 p.m. tonight to 6 a.m. tomorrow in the vicinity of yesterday s clash near the lat bhairon temple here. the police opened fire following a clash between two groups of people belonging to two different communities, resulting in the death of two persons. the district magistrate, mr. ram bahadur saksena, has ordered the cancellation of second shows in all cinema houses in the city. so far, 45 persons have been arrested. among them is dr. mohd hanif, secretary of the city unit of the bharatiya kranti dal. the district magistrate held a meeting of representatives of both the communities this morning and appealed to the citizens to maintain peace. he told pti that no untoward incident was reported from any quarter in the city till midday today. police patrolling has been intensified. the trouble, it was stated today, arose, when a mob of over 1000 persons attacked the lat bhairon temple and disturbed the  bhairon ashtmi  celebrations.toi 12/4/69 mr. chavan said according to the information received from the state government, there was a local dispute on tuesday about rights of worship, etc. the state government sent police and armed constabulary into the area. about evening a mob of 1000 belonging to a minority community armed with spears etc. indulged in heavy brick-batting causing serious injuries to about 12 police personnel. when the situation worsened, the police opened fire. toi 12/5/69dec 4 the night curfew, imposed in the adampur and lat bhairon areas, has been lifted. pac men, however, have been posted at all strategic points as a precautionary measure.  toi 12/5/69
 two persons weere killed and 35 injured in a series of clashes between jana sangh-rss workers and muslim league supporters at tirur in the newly-formed malappuram district, about 60 kilometres from here yesterday. after several street fights during the day, one of the two groups set fire to a cloth shop in the town as a result of which two persons were suffocated to death. toi 12/10/69
e.a. ahmed, a muslim league mla alleged that marxists had attacked the mosque at kappad, in cannanore district, breaking windows and damaging property. political conflict perhaps central, as other recent reports in media of conflict between cpi(m) and ml.
incident in  boriya labour camp area of this steel town  over alleged killing of cow and sale of beef by a butcher.  toi 1/28/70
trouble on rangpanchmi day, the close of the five day holi festival, subsided quickly in several mp towns.
trouble on rangpanchmi day, the close of the five day holi festival, subsided quickly in several mp towns.
trouble on rangpanchmi day, the close of the five day holi festival, subsided quickly in several mp towns.
trouble on rangpanchmi day, the close of the five day holi festival, subsided quickly in several mp towns.
the police burst tear-gas shells to disperse two rival groups as they were about to clash here today. the mobs indulged in stone-throwing. they also attempted to set fire to a house.
 ... the violent processionists were reported to have set fire to about 30 huts belonging to another community. a dusk-to-dawn curfew was imposed following several cases of arson and looting. the district authorities also promulgated prohibitory orders under section 144 cr. p.c. intensive police patrolling was continuing in the town. additional police have been rushed from the neighbouring districts. (toi 4/15/70) tension arose when some unidentified people hurled bombs at a ramnavmi procession. the police had to resort to firing to disperse the violent mob. several buses and shops were set on fire. the situation is tense in singhbhum and hazarigabh districts. the scene of trouble in hazarigabh district was the industrial townshhip of giridh. according to the deputy commissioner, the bombs were hurled in the bari bazar area of chaibasa when the ramnavmi procession was passing through a predetermined route. police reinforcements have been rushed to the affected area from ranchi....the curfew, which was relaxed for a few hours this morning, was reimposed at 8 a.m. for 24 hours. of the 32 people admitted to hospital following the incidents were two magistrates and six policemen with gunshot wounds. (toi 4/16/70) mr umanath [speaking in the lok sabha] said it was significant that the chaibasa incident came closely on the heels of the attempt made on the life of mr. jyoti basu. mr. chavan [the union home minister] replied that there were discussions between the local authorities at chaibasa and leaders of both communities about the arrangements for taking out the procession. the idol of hanuman had to be left at the scene of the incident. the idol, which was danaged, was later taken in a truck with the cooperation with the cooperation of the authorities. the chaibasa incident differed from other communal incidents and the political background should be considered. (toi 4/21/70)
 the trouble began near bhusari mohalla when stones and acid-filled bombs were thrown from some houses on the procession about 5.30 pm. thereafter the disturbances took a violent turn and spread all over bhiwandi. the processionists broke up into groups and began looting shops and burning firewood depots. the areas affected are sutar aali (lane), prabha aali, nizam mohalla, saudagar mohalla, vani locality and fish mohalla. inspector chandrakant pradhan and sub inspector hirve were among those injured by stones....the collector and district magistrate of thana, mr. d. n. capoor, was hit by a stone on the hand while moving with the procession...police sources theselves describe the arson as being on a  large scale . the police administration had earlier taken precautions by posting 300 srp (state reserve police) men there. (toi 5/8/70)the maharashtra minister of state for home, mr. k. p. patil, speaking in the legislative assembly on the 8th may, that the govt had been unprepared, he said that the govt had received reports that in the days before the riot provocative speeches had been made by the rashtriya utsav mandal and the tamir-e-millat. in consequence the d.i.g., bombay range, the dsp and the thana collector had been in the town for the two days prior to the riots. speaking in the same debate,  mr. b. s. patil, (pwp-samiti) narrated the incidents that led to the riots. he said the leaders of the muslim community had not only expressed the desire of the local muslims to participate in the shiv jayanti celebrations, but had also taken part in the procession on thursday. they left it when objectionable anti-muslim slogans were raised by a section of the participants.  (toi 5/9/70) some prominent leaders told mr. naik [cm] that a single police station for bhiwandi, with a population of 140,000, had proved inadequate. a few of them even offered their buildings to house temporary police outposts....the chief minister inquired into the origin of the disturbances, when he was told that the throwing of stones and acid-filled bombs on the shiv jayanti procession on thursday appeared to be pre-planned. mr k. s. dhongde (pwp-sam) in a debate in the lok sabha on 14 may, mr. a. b. vajpayee of the jana sangh said  ...that he was not blaming the generality of the muslims who were peace-loving people. but there were certain sections which caused all the trouble. after questioning anybody s right to lat down conditions for the observance of shiva jayanti -about objections to the flying of the bhagwa jhenda or the sprinkling of red powder-mr. vaypayee spoke about the inadequacy of the police arrangements at bhiwandi despite prior warning about the likelihood of trouble on may 7. (toi 5/15/70) the property lost in bhiwandi was 583 huts, 286 pucca houses, 54 sheds, 921 powerlooms, 85 beams, five sizing units and 35 units, including dispensaries, hotels and godowns. the loss so far is estimated at rs. 52,52,632. (toi 5/16/70) on the 13th chavan , in response to jana sangh claims that the riots had been organized against hindus, stated that  the buggest sufferers in bhiwandi were muslims, while almost all of those killed and injured in jalgaon were muslims. one entire marriage party was burned alive... (toi 5/13/70)
speaking in the lok sabha on may 11th, the home minister mr. chavan said that  disturbances broke out in jalgaon, which had a good tradition of communal amity, when on may 8 news about the bhiwandi disturbances reached there. to control the situation firing had to be resorted to....over 200 houses and about 107 shops were burnt down, resulting in loss or damage to the tune of about rs. 15 lakhs.  (toi 5/12/70)on the 13th chavan , in response to jana sangh claims that the riots had been organized against hindus, stated that  the biggest sufferers in bhiwandi were muslims, while almost all of those killed and injured in jalgaon were muslims. one entire marriage party was burned alive... (toi 5/13/70)original reference said jalgaon was in kolaba district.
 the bhiwandi incidents had their echo in mahad, where the police fired eight rounds to control violent mobs indulging in stone-throwing, arson and looting on friday. the situation was, however, brought under control....over twelve people were injured, including five who sustained bullet injuries. twenty people have been arrested in mahad, where a few shops, houses, and two godowns were burnt. (toi 5/9/70)speaking in the lok sabha on may 11th, the home minister mr. chavan said that  there were also disturbances at mahad, in kolaba district, on may 8. the police resorted to firing and lathi charge. nine persons were injured, including five in police firing. property worth about rs. 1 lakh had also been damaged. (toi 5/12/70)
 rioters set ablaze nankar village near here[kalyan], destroying nearly three fourths of it. a rice mill was also burnt down (toi 5/12/94)
 twelve houses were also burnt down in netiwali district, also near kalyan (toi 5/12/94)
 the state reserve police fired nine rounds to disperse a mob which at kasar wadavli village, near thana, raided a house, injuring the inmates fatally and setting on fire haystacks and two other houses. mehbood sahanshah, the victim of an assault, died in the thana civil hospital. (toi 5/12/70)
 the police reported incidents of looting and arson at saivan, deepavali and diler in virar tehsil where shops and houses were set ablaze. the chief minister said the arson cases arose mainly from personal enmity and had nothing to do with the communal riots. [toi 12th may].
 several rounds were fired by the police to disperse riotous mobs at wada, a taluka town near mahad, where two cases of arson were reported.  (toi 5/12/70)
mr m. g. mugve, dig police, cid announced on the 13th may that in thana (and elsewhere in the district, but excluding bhiwandi and jalgaon) 14 were dead, 166 arrested, and 4 injured. (toi 5/13/70) factories in the thana-belapur industrial complex have reported a 35 per cent drop in attendance of workmen since riots broke out in and around thana on tuesday....all the muslim workers-ten to fifteen percent of the workers in each factory are muslims-have abstained from work since tuesday...there are 700 industrial units , woolen, chemical, engineering and pharmaceutical being the main ones among them, in the industrial complex, and they employ more than 81,000 people. (toi 5/15/70)

 a place of worship and 20 houses were burnt down at vashind, near shahpur, thana district, early on monday [11th may].
attack on three individuals on the mumbra-kalyan train
mob tried to attack railway station. police were prepared and fired, killing one. (toi 5/15/70)
waholi village in kalyan taluka. mob tried to attack village. police were prepared and fired, killing 2. (toi 5/15/70)
talawali is 13km from bhiwandi. 800 strong mob surrounded the village, but the police who had been tipped off dispersed the crowd by firing, killing one (toi 5/15/70)
roda village in panvel taluka. abandoned houses looted and set on fire. (toi 5/15/70)
morpi village near panvel. those who had fled their homes earlier were attacked by a mob as they returned (toi 5/15
 four people were killed and several injured at a riot [i ve listed three above as an estimate] at the patratu thermal plant township, in hazaribagh district last night....the riot was over the alleged slughter of a cow. toi 8/26/70in toi on8/27/70 the death toll was upwardly revised to 5, and arrests to forty six.
 the trouble started at a matka den near two tanks, off the jj hospital, and rumours spread fast creating tension in a number of places. police sources stated that the men connected with the matka den clashed with a group of bootleggers about 9 p.m. and that was how the disturbance started....a notorious gang leader, who had just returned after a spell of externment, was stated to be one of the killed....the police, who had kept a watch during the ganpati celebrations over the palces where trouble could start, had been withdrawn only on saturday.  toi 9/20/70 the toll in the police firing rose to 15 on monday....a minor clash between two groups flared into a major incident....a muslim league deputation met the commissioner of police, mr. s.g. pradhan, and told hime that panic and misunderstanding resulted in spreading the disturbances. mr. g. n. banatwala, m.l.a., said the protest rally and the morcha planned by the muslim league to the chief minister s house had been postponed. the muslim league has appealed to the people to maintain peace, law and order. meanwhile, the central muslim relief committee met at the residence of mr. a.k. hafizka and discussed on the steps to be taken to ensure peace and normalcy.  toi 9/22/70
it was reported that an altercation between a customer and resulted in a clash between the two groups. the trouble then began to spread to other areas. toi 9/29/70
 the police made repeated lathi-charges and fired nine rounds of tear-gas shells at raigunj town in west dinajpur yesterday to disperse rioters ransacking several shops and committing arson. according to information received at the secretariat, a boy was fatally stabbed in a clash between two groups of people on monday over the immersion ceremony. rioting started when the body was being taken in a procession.  times of india 10/23/70
sporadic stabbings and stone throwing
the curfew imposed on the dariapur area here on saturday night after violent incidents has been extended until 7 a.m. tomorrow [7th]. the curfew was to end at midnight today. the police said the situation in the troubled area was under control. life was normal in other parts of the city. the police have rounded up 190  anti-social  people and arrested 94 for violating the curfew. they have registered cases against 18 people for rioting.  toi 12/7/70
 three people includinga 40-year-old woman were killed when a police constable fired in  self-defence  in dariapur area of ahmedabad today. a constable, rustav madhav rao, who was attacked by a group of people with knives, was admitted to the civil hospital with multiple injuries...curfew has been impsed in the dariapur locality and the police have also banned the assembly of more than four persons, processions, and carrying of arms in the entire city as a precautionary measure.  toi 12/19/70
 ujjain (m.p.), december 25: the situation in the burlagram industrial township near here remained  peaceful  today, according to official sources....a party of six members of the state assembly, inclusing mr. v.s. pradhan, leader of the jana sangh bloc, mr. s.p. chanpuria (ssp) and mr. brijlal verma (jana sangh) today visited birlagram for an on-the-spot study of monday s distrubance... toi 12/26/70
 baroda, february 5: one person was killed when the police opened fire late tonight in the wadi area of the city to control a clash between two groups. the police, who rushed to the spot, brought the situation under control within a few minutes. according to official sources, the police first burst tear-gas shells to disperse the mob gathered near a restaurant in the area. as the mob did not disperse, the police opened fire after warning the people.  toi 2/6/71
 the trouble was triggered by some miscreants who threw brickbats at an election procession organised by the hindu mahasabha, it is reported. a heavy police force was rushed to the area. the police allegedly used force to disperse the rioters. this enraged the mob which set fire to some shops in the locality.  toi 2/23/71 the congress (r) general secretary, mr. h. n. bahuguna, and the congress (o) leader, mr. mangla prasad, are among the candidates seeking election to the lok sabha from allahabad. the clash, which led to the imposition of a 24-hour curfew over the affected areas, did not involve their supporters. the trouble started when a candidate took out a procession to protest against against certain remarks said to have been made by another candidate. when the procession passed the election office of the other candidate, it was stoned. this led to an exchange of stones by two groups. toi 2/23/71 february 26: the congress (o) leader mr. bashir ahmad, today resigned from the party in protest against monday s incidents in the city, resulting in the death of one person.  toi 2/27/71 feb 27: the night curfew clamped on the city on february 23, following some violent incidents, was totally lifted tonight.  toi 2/28/71  february 26: the congress (o) leader, mr. bashir ahmad, today resigned from the party in protest against monday s incidents in the city, resulting in the death of one person. toi 2/28/71 lucknow march 10: twenty two people were killed and nearly 250 injured in the recent disturbances at allahabad, aligarh, and moradabad.giving this information at a press conference, the u.p. home minister, mr. virendra verma, said that the situation in all those places was under control. over 850 people had been arrested. besides there had been minor sidturbances in etah, mathura, gorakhpur, meerut and pratapgarh districts on polling days.mr. verma said that a judicial inquiry had been ordered in respect of aligarh riots. the disturbances were pre-palnned but the state intelligence had failed to get any information about the plan.action had been taken against the district magistrate and the senior superintendent of police, aligarh and they had been suspended for  their failure to  control  the situation. toi 3/11/71
 the trouble started when students took out a procession today in defiance of the prohibitory orders under section 144, cr.p.c. to protest against the arrest of chandra dutta sharma, a leader of the vidhyarthi parishad, the student wing of the jana sangh. sharma was arrested yesterday on the charge of making inflammatory speeches, but was later released on bail. the students burnt an effigy of the police officer who had arrested sharma and threw stones at the police when they tried to disperse them. when the students continued to hurl brickbats the police opened fire. the crowd then dispersed but collected again and set fire to 14 shops. there were also some stray incidents of stabbing.  toi 3/3/71 the army was called out shortly after midnight... toi 3/3/71 ...two companies of the pac had been rushed to the riot-ravaged city... toi 3/3/71 the commissioner of the agra division, mr. k. k. sharma, and the additional inspector-general of police, mr. qamrul hasan, rushed to aligarh. the union deputy minister for railways, mr. yunus saleem, is seeking election from the aligarh parliamentary constituency. his main opponents in the seven cornered contest are mr. shiv kumar shastri (bkd) and mr. amarnath (hindu mahasabha). toi 3/3/71 mr ram prakash, general secretary of the jana sangh, urged the chief minister, mr. t.n. singh, to hand over the administration of the riot-torn city forthwith, as the district administration had not been able to control the situation there.mr. ram prakash in a statement described as false and misleading a reported statement that the trouble sparked in aligarh today after chandra dutta sharma had made inflammatory speeches and that he belonged to either the rss or the vidyarti parishad....mr. ram prakash alleged that during the clash between the students and the police, some people said to be the supporters of mr. yunus saleem,  attacked the processionists with lathis and fire-arms and indulged in arson.  toi 3/3/71 talking to the p.t.i. on the telephone today, mr. saleem...alleged that the shops of new congress supporters were  looted  and set on fire by an unruly mob of rss workers. he also alleged that the houses of the district propaganda secretary of the new congress, mr. d.n. misra, and other congress workers were set on fire. toi 3/3/71 the firing added to the tension in the town and the authorities began receiving news about the trouble from different parts. mr. bhatt said that students spread a rumour that the members of one community were firing on those belonging to another community....people belonging to the rival groups took up positions on top of buildings and exchanged fire and brick-bats. this was followed by the burning of shops in various areas. general merchants, radio and fan dealers, cloth shops, goldsmiths and grocers suffered heavy losses in the arson....the riots forced the postponement of the polling, scheduled for today, to march 9 in the three remaining assembly constituencies in the aligarh parliamentary constituency. toi 3/4/71 the district authorities were obviously taken unawares by the outburst of violence. after the polling on march 1, the bulk of the aligarh police force had been sent to the rural areas. toi 3/4/71 according to the district magistrate, mr. ushapati bhatt, the trouble apparently started when the vidyarti parishad (jana sangh youth wing) took out a procession in defiance of the ban order. the processionists allegedly burnt effigies of mr yunis saleem, the congress-r candidate, and of a local police officer who had arrested a student leader on the day of polling after he was involved in an affray. toi 3/4/71 the u.p. government yesterday [3/9/71] suspended mr. ushapati bhatt, district magistrate of aligarh, and mr. y.k. saksena, superintendent of police, for alleged dereliction of duty and negligence during the riots in aligarh city on march 2.the suspension orders were handed to mr. bhatt and mr. saksena here yesterday by the chief secretary mr. m. lal. toi, 3/11/71 lucknow, march 17: the uttar pradesh governemnt today appointed mr. justice d.s. mathur of the allahabad high court to head a one-man commission to inquire into the aligarh riots during the mid-term poll for the lok sabha on march 2.the commission will complete the inquiry within three months, says an official release. toi 3/18/71  lucknow march 10: twenty two people were killed and nearly 250 injured in the recent disturbances at allahabad, aligarh, and moradabad.giving this information at a press conference, the u.p. home minister, mr. virendra verma, said that the situation in all those places was under control. over 850 people had been arrested. besides there had been minor sidturbances in etah, mathura, gorakhpur, meerut and pratapgarh districts on polling days.mr. verma said that a judicial inquiry had been ordered in respect of aligarh riots. the disturbances were pre-palnned but the state intelligence had failed to get any information about the plan.action had been taken against the district magistrate and the senior superintendent of police, aligarh and they had been suspended for  their failure to  control  the situation. toi 3/11/71
 lucknow march 10: twenty two people were killed and nearly 250 injured in the recent disturbances at allahabad, aligarh, and moradabad.giving this information at a press conference, the u.p. home minister, mr. virendra verma, said that the situation in all those places was under control. over 850 people had been arrested. besides there had been minor sidturbances in etah, mathura, gorakhpur, meerut and pratapgarh districts on polling days.mr. verma said that a judicial inquiry had been ordered in respect of aligarh riots. the disturbances were pre-palnned but the state intelligence had failed to get any information about the plan.action had been taken against the district magistrate and the senior superintendent of police, aligarh and they had been suspended for  their failure to  control  the situation. toi 3/11/71[given that there were 16 reported dead at aligarh and 1 at allahabad, i have assumed that 5 were killed at moradabad] moradabad, march 6: the curfew imposed last night in the wake of clashes between two groups of people has been extended to 5 a.m. tomorrow. it was relaxed for some time today. one person was killed and 17 were injured in yesterday s clashes. the trouble followed a heated argument at a polling booth over the identity of a woman voter. polling was, however, not affected. the authorities are rounding up bad characters. thirty people were arrested this morning for violation of the curfew. two pac battalions are patrolling the troubled areas. toi march 7, 1971 lucknow, march 8: one more person succumbed to stab wounds last night in moradabad, raising the death roll in the distrubances there to five, according to an official spokesman.about 50 people have so far been injured in the incidents sparked off by a dispute over the identity of a woman voter during polling on friday. toi 3/9/71
 junagadh, march 8: three shops in the town were broken open and looted this morning. an attempt to set fire to a dargah was folied by the timely arrival of the police. the srp, the homeguards and the police were patrolling the town which observed a hartal today in protest against the alleged kidnapping of a married woman on february 27.seventeen people have been arrested so far.orders under section 144 cr. p.c. were being promulgated in the town. permission to take out the moharrum tajia procession was not granted.  toi 3/9/71 junagadh, march 10: a sub-inspector of police and six other people were injured in renewed rioting in junagadh today.the police lathi-charged and the tear-gassed miscreants at two places in the town.on mohurrum day, monday, riots had broken out over the alleged abduction of a housewife by a young man of a different community. a seven-hour curfew had been imposed on the city and later a ban order was clamped.today s trouble was sparked off with the presenting in court of tow arrested leaders of the young man s community. miscreants gathered outside the court started looting and setting nearby shops on fire. the police burst tear gas shells to disperse the rowdy mobs.the police lathi-charges another rowdy crowd near the alankar cinema at shukhanath, chowk. the crowd had set fire to a cloth shop there.a order prohibiting the assembly of more than four people was reimposed but, later tonight, the police said the situation was under control.  toi 3/11/71
 bhopal, march 13: curfew was extended as a precautionary measure in burhanpur today.four people were killed in police firing in this tehsil town yesterday following a clash between two sections of people during holi revelry. according to official sources, 14 people were injured.the situation in the town is now stated to be under control. toi 3/14/71
 ahmedabad, april 22: curfew was imposed in most parts of the walled city of ahmedabad at 10.30 p.m. following stone-throwing between two groups of people.the police and srp units were patrolling the affected areas.  toi 4/23/71
 junagadh, huly 15: one person died instantly and three others were injured when the police opened fire here this afternoon in the busy yukhnath chowk area to disperse two mobs fighting with soda-water bottles, lathis, and other weapons. one state reserve police (srp) constable was injured when the warring factions attacked the police. the injured have been admitted to hospital. the city magistrate clamped prohibitory orders under section 144, banning the assembly of more than four persons throughout the city till 5 a.m. tomorrow. the situation was later described by official sources as being under control. the trouble started when two groups clashed near a local cinema house at 3.40 p.m. following a two-month-old quarrel between them. when the police intervened, the 500 strong mob attacked the police. twenty people have been arrested so far. toi july 16, 1971
 lucknow, september 28: prohibitory orders under section 144, cr. p.c. have been imposed throughout azaqmgarh district, in uttar pradesh, following a clash between two communities, in which one person was killed and 50 were injured in mudyar village, under the ahirauli police circle, on sunday, according to official reports reaching the state headquarters today. over 90 persons had been arrested and strong police and pac contingents were patrolling the trouble spots. the situation was under control, the report said. toi sep 29, 1971
the kerala education minister, mr. c.h. mohammad koya (muslim league) said here today that the recent riots in tellicherry were not communal in nature but part of a clever plan for looting....in most cases, ornaments and household utensils were taken away. shops were looted. places of worship were also attacked to give a communal colour to what was essentially a plan to loot, he added. toi 1/5/72in oct 1972, mr justice joseph vithayatil  ...said that the disturbances between hindus and muslims in tellicherry could have been avoided had the police been vigilant and impartial.  the police, he said, were  infected by the virus of communalism.  toi 12/11/73 kozhikode, december 29: tellicherry town and the suburbs were cordoned off by the police today to prevent the influx of hooligans into this riot-torn town where at least 60 people were injured, some of them seriously, in a clash between two sections. the authorities also imposed a prohibitory order under section 144, cr. p.c., in the entire tellicherry taluka of cannanore district. trouble started when a youth hurled a chappal at a religious procession. some processionists chased the boy into a hotel which was wrecked when the youth was defended by some of those inside. others poured into the town this morning and there were a number of clashes. pti adds from trivandrum. six policemen, including the deputy superintendent of police, were injured in the stone throwing. about 40 persons had been arrested. the times of india 30 dec 1971
 many people were injured in clashes between residents of two localities on tank pakhadi road in agripada, bombay, on monday night.the rioting was a sequel to previous enmity between the residents of the khatau mill chawl and lohana house, the police said on tuesday. toi 3/1/72
 hubli, march 21: a dusk-to-dawn curfew was clamped down on the city today. this followed the death in hospital this morning of a youth stabbed in group clashes on friday, which touched off incidents of violence. toi 3/22/72
 the mysore government has for [sic] the immediate dispatch of an army unit to riot-torn gulbarga where curfew has failed to curb large bands of mobs indulging in large-scale arson.... thirty people were arrested for arson as a number of places of worship had been set on fire. one of the three wounded in yesterday s police firing died in hospital today. toi 3/1/72 gulbarga, rocked by a series of communal clashes, is expected to go to the polls on thursday, according to schedule....the keenness of the seven-cornered fight in the gulbarga constituency, where muslim voters preponderate, is heightened by a trivial incident arising from holi revelry which led to large-scale arson and looting. toi 3/3/72observers feel that the main fight will be between mr. mohammed ali [congress] and the jana sangh candidate [mr. ananth sharma, vp of the state party].toi march 3, 1972, p.11 mr. chandrashekhar bilfundi, president of the city municipal council, in a memorandum signed by 2000 people, said mr. a.j. anandan, the superintendent of police, had been made a scapegoat and his transfer from gulbarga was unjust.a memorandum presented to the governor, by the citizens committee, gulbarga, demanded a judicial probe into the disturbances. it said political parties had instigated trouble in this traditionally peaceful city. toi 3/9/72 an earlier message from the toi news sercvixe said: with only four days left for the first round of the assmbly elections tension was said to be contining in gulbarga where a series of communal clashes yesterday led to police firing: belgaum witnessed a similar incident. toi march 2 1972
 two battalions of the provincial armed constabulary have been brought in from other districts for the maintenance of law and order. the commissioner of agra division, mr. m. c. johri, and the dig (agra range), mr. shiv swaroop, are camping in aligarh to keep a strict watch on the situation....the additional district magistrate and the superintendent of police pointed out that the rioting followed an accident in which neeraj, a seven-year old child of a goldsmith of the binai para area, was knocked down by a scooter driver, maksood. toi 6/6/72*should protest vs amu bill be regarded as  political  or communal? strict security measures have been taken in aligarh and other nearby towns to maintain law and order. the steps have been taken in view of the call given by leaders of the muslim majlis and the muslim league to observe a  protest day  tomorrow against the aligarh muslim amendment (amendment) act. about ten companies of the provincial armed constabulary and two companies of the border security force are patrolling aligarh.  armed contingents have been posted at strategic points in agra, mathura, etah, mainpuri, moradabad, bulandshahr and bareilly towns. the military authorities have been alerted to rush help if the situation deteriorated. the dusk-to dawn curfew in aligarh is likely to be extended. it will be reimposed shortly after the friday prayers by 3 p.m. as a precautionary measure.  toi 6/15/72, p.1 no untoward incident was reported from any part of aligarh where the curfew hours were advanced as a precautionary measure to 3p.m. onwards instead of from 6 p.m. a black flag demonstration was held there. two persons were taken into custody for coercing shop-keepers to pull down their shutters. some shops were open. intensive patrolling by the police has continued since thursday evening. aligarh has been under curfew since june 5. but it is gradually becoming relaxed. lucknow, allahabad, moradabad and kanpur districts, where the authorities have been specially vigilant, remained peaceful  toi 6/17/72, p.1 the fact-finding team appointed by the dmk and the muslim league of tamil nadu has come to the conclusion that....the trouble  was not engineered by the jana sangh.  it was a fight between the innocent muslim minority, on the one hand, and the provincial armed constabulary, the police and goondas, on the other. about 60 people were shot dead in ferozabad, more than nine in varanasi and one in aligarh, according to them.  they were  caught like mice in a trap and shot like dogs.  these figures, the team claimed, had been corroborated by mrs. subhadra joshi, a congress member of the lok sabha.  toi 6/26/72, p.1
 curfew was clamped in ferozabad and some localities of varanasi following violent incidents provoked by the demonstrations against the aligarh muslim university (amendment) act.... one person was killed and one injured at ferozabad when a provincial armed constabulary patrol fired in self-defence on a violent mob which was stoning the police. the incident occurred at purbi chowk, near shikohabad gate, after friday prayers. the trouble started when groups of demonstrators shouted slogans against the government and mrs. indira gandhi and marched in procession in defiance of the prohibitory orders enforced earlier under section 144, cr. p.c.. the crowd set fire to some shops and also attacked a fire-engine which arrived there. they also attacked the purbi gate police post. about 20 police personnel, including the additional superintendent of police, mr. hari singh, were injured. more companies of the pac and a wireless unit have been rushed to ferozabad when the situation was officially stated to be under control late in the evening. the curfew will be in force for 24 hours from 5 p.m. on friday..... no untoward incident was reported from any part of aligarh where the curfew hours were advanced as a precautionary measure to 3p.m. onwards instead of from 6 p.m. a black flag demonstration was held there. two persons were taken into custody for coercing shop-keepers to pull down their shutters. some shops were open. intensive patrolling by the police has continued since thursday evening. aligarh has been under curfew since june 5. but it is gradually becoming relaxed. lucknow, allahbad, moradabad and kanpur districts, where the authorities have been specially vigilant, remained peaceful  toi 6/17/72, p.1 this reporter, who visited ferozabad this morning, found the purbi gate area littered with smouldering debris. several shops in the area had been set on fire by hooligans last night. the miscreants appear to have deliberately chosen this area for a confrontation with the police. the main road was virtually inaccessible to police vehicles and fire-engines as it was dug three metres deep at some places for laying sewers. besides, logs and mounds of earth had been piled up to block traffic. large quantities of bricks had also been collected at various points. policemen who tried to quell the disturbances in the area are reported to have been fired upon  toi 6/18/72, p.1 the fact-finding team appointed by the dmk and the muslim league of tamil nadu has come to the conclusion that....the trouble  was not engineered by the jana sangh.  it was a fight between the innocent muslim minority, on the one hand, and the provincial armed constabulary, the police and goondas, on the other. about 60 people were shot dead in ferozabad, more than nine in varanasi and one in aligarh, according to them.  they were  caught like mice in a trap and shot like dogs.  these figures, the team claimed, had been corroborated by mrs. subhadra joshi, a congress member of the lok sabha.  toi 6/26/72, p.1
 curfew was clamped in ferozabad and some localities of varanasi following violent incidents provoked by the demonstrations against the aligarh muslim university (amendment) act.... a dusk-to-dawn curfew was imposed in four disturbed localities of varanasi following violent incidents. the police resorted to firing in the madanpura area as lathi-charges and tear-gas proved ineffective. in all nine rounds were fired by police. nearly 20 people, including policemen, were injured. two of the 12 injured taken to hospital from madanpura bore gunshot wounds. they were stated to have been shot at by some rioters from housetops. some 100 people were taken into custody. they included those arrested for throwing stones and anti-social elements rounded up earlier in the day. the curfew-bound areas of varanasi are madanpura, nai sapak, and dalmandi. power transmission lines and telegraph wires snapped at several places when boulders were hurled from housetops by rioters. at one place a handgrenade was reported to have been used against the police. according to the district authorities of varanasi, a police patrol was virtually besieged by agitators. stones were thrown at the police from housetops. another police party, led by the superintendent, mr. a. r. sharma, and the deputy superintendent, mr. s.p. chandola, rescued the small patrol.  toi 6/17/72, p.1 no untoward incident was reported from any part of aligarh where the curfew hours were advanced as a precautionary measure to 3p.m. onwards instead of from 6 p.m. a black flag demonstration was held there. two persons were taken into custody for coercing shop-keepers to pull down their shutters. some shops were open. intensive patrolling by the police has continued since thursday evening. aligarh has been under curfew since june 5. but it is gradually becoming relaxed. lucknow, allahabad, moradabad and kanpur districts, where the authorities have been specially vigilant, remained peaceful  toi 6/17/72, p.1
 the police opened fire to quell a violent crowd in palanpur town, the district headquarters of banaskantha, this evening, according to the collector of palanpur, mr. p. basu. according to the collector, the trouble started when a dussera procession, passing through a minority locality, was subjected to heavy stone-throwing and brick-batting resulting in injury to several participants in the procession.  toi 10/18/72, p.1
 three people were killed and 38 injured following stabbing, looting, rioting and arson in the munitreddypalayam area here late last night.... the disturbances were a sequel to a clash between two groups of people as a dasara procession was passing by a place of worship. the procession was said to have been attacked with stones, sodawater bottles and other missiles at about 10 p.m. yesterday. munnireddypalayam is a known trouble-spot and the procession was being escorted by the armed reserve police. however, the magnitude of the attack appears to have taken the police by surprise  toi 10/19/72, p.1 bangalore, october 22: the dasara procession, which was attacked and dispersed by a section of the people in front of a place of worship...on wednesday, will be taken out again on saturday, according to a decision taken by the peace committee and the chief minister, mr. devaraj urs.  toi 10/23/72
 three communal riots took place in eastern uttar pradesh last year: at nonari (azamgarh) on november 15, sajni (azamgarh), december 12, and rani mau (jaunpur), december 29....rani mau shows that the administration, if willing, can effectively check a communal flare up....most of the ex-zamindars as well as rich and middle peasants are muslims, while the small peasants as well as landless workers, as in other areas, are harijans. so unlike the conventional pattern of caste hindu vs. harijan the tension has assumed a muslim vs. harijan character in these parts. p.5n.k. singh,  three riots: three phenomena  frontline april 28, 1973, pp.5-8
 three communal riots took place in eastern uttar pradesh last year: at nonari (azamgarh) on november 15, sajni (azamgarh), december 12, and rani mau (jaunpur), december 29....rani mau shows that the administration, if willing, can effectively check a communal flare up....most of the ex-zamindars as well as rich and middle peasants are muslims, while the small peasants as well as landless workers, as in other areas, are harijans. so unlike the conventional pattern of caste hindu vs. harijan the tension has assumed a muslim vs. harijan character in these parts. p.5n.k. singh,  three riots: three phenomena  frontline april 28, 1973, pp.5-8
 three communal riots took place in eastern uttar pradesh last year: at nonari (azamgarh) on november 15, sajni (azamgarh), december 12, and rani mau (jaunpur), december 29....rani mau shows that the administration, if willing, can effectively check a communal flare up....most of the ex-zamindars as well as rich and middle peasants are muslims, while the small peasants as well as landless workers, as in other areas, are harijans. so unlike the conventional pattern of caste hindu vs. harijan the tension has assumed a muslim vs. harijan character in these parts. p.5  it may be mentioned here that as a policy matter the national integration council has recommended transfer of all the administrative and police officials as soon as a communal flare up takes place in an area. but the u.p. chief minister mr kamlapati tripathi has stated that pending the judicial inquiry no officer will be transferred. n.k. singh,  three riots: three phenomena  frontline april 28, 1973, pp.5-8
 three police officers and a constable were also injured in the kamathipura clashes between jana sangh and muslim league supporters celebrating their civic election victory.....the police said that the trouble started at the junction of foras road, near the daulat talkies, when the processionists of the jana sangh and the muslim league clashed. it was alleged that the jana sangh supporters shouted provocative slogans. toi 3/12/73ml procession turned and attacked bystanders, and later js processionists who sang  vande mataram  to taunt them. the song was an issue during the election campaign. toi 3/13/73
 several cases of arson and looting were also reported during the flare up last night which, according to official sources, was a sequel to an attack on a ram navami procession in telawal village, three kilometres from hazaribagh. toi 4/14/73 ...mr. s.k.ghose, camping here along with the deputy inspector-general of police...said two persons were killed and 15 others injured when a group of persons allegedly atacked a ram navami procession with swords and daggers on thursday at pelwar village near here. toi 4/15/73 a 24-hour curfew was clamped down on hazaribagh town and its suburbs ...after four persons were stabbed to death in different parts of the town....police reinforcements have been rushed from the adjoining districts and the services of more border security force personnel requisitioned for intensified patrolling. the deputy-commissioner of hazaribagh issued shoot-at-sight orders to check defiance of section 144 cr.p.c. [the casualty list] ....excludes the victims of arson at bonga village yesterday... toi 4/16/73 more than 350 peopel, including some local jharkhand party and jana sangh leaders had been rounded up.  toi 4/17/73
 several cases of arson and looting were also reported during the flare up last night which, according to official sources, was a sequel to an attack on a ram navami procession in telawal village, three kilometres from hazaribagh. toi 4/14/73 ...mr. s.k.ghose, camping here along with the deputy inspector-general of police...said two persons were killed and 15 others injured when a group of persons allegedly atacked a ram navami procession with swords and daggers on thursday at pelwar village near here. toi 4/15/73 a 24-hour curfew was clamped down on hazaribagh town and its suburbs ...after four persons were stabbed to death in different parts of the town....police reinforcements have been rushed from the adjoining districts and the services of more border security force personnel requisitioned for intensified patrolling. the deputy-commissioner of hazaribagh issued shoot-at-sight orders to check defiance of section 144 cr.p.c. [the casualty list] ....excludes the victims of arson at bonga village yesterday... toi 4/16/73 more than 350 peopel, including some local jharkhand party and jana sangh leaders had been rounded up.  toi 4/17/73
grain riots occurred for several days in nagpur, with many killed and injured, during this time, 16 km away in kamptee two violent weapons-holding mobs fought a pitch battle at kamptee, 16 km from here, during the day. the police made repeated lathi-charges to keep the mobs apart, and later imposed strict curfew on the area. this helped bring the situation under control......mr. a.v.b. mudallar, a senior police officer who has been deputed to deal with the situation at kamptee, said tonight that the kamptee clash was a  communal incident , but not a communal rioting. the situation was under control, he added.  4/21/73
 the kalyan police reported that two rival groups resorted to stone-throwing on saturday following a clash. no one was injured, the police said. the incident took place near the urdu school, opposite durgadi fort, it was stated. a group of shiv sainiks were alleged to have assaulted six tonga drivers in kalyan, according to the police. on of the tonga drivers had been admitted to a hospital. two tongas were damaged.  toi 4/30/73
 poona, april 16: twelve people suffered burn injuries when sone unidentified persons threw a bottle of acid on a procession taken out to celebrate the birth anniversary of prophet mohammed here today.  toi 4/17/73 three people were killed today as poona city and its environs observed a complete bandh organised by the opposition parties.... in another incident, many people supporting the bandh stormed phule mandai (central vegetable market). vegetable and fruit vendors were urged to close their stalls. the stall holders retaliated with lathis, bamboos and planks and beat up a number of those supporting the bandh..... trouble erupted in the thickly-populated areas of the city when rival factions exchanged acid bulbs, areated water bottles and stones.  toi 5/17/73 yet another view on the riots is that communal tension was built up by a succession of events of which the clash between muslims and neo-buddhists came first, on april 15. a neo-buddhist wedding procession clashed with a group of muslims over the playing of music as the procession passed through an empty square in the city, where muslim priests were giving a discourse. bottles   soda water or was it acid?   were thrown at the procession. on the same day, the shiv sena threatened to go in procession past all the important masjids in poona. on mohammed s birthday (april 16), acid bottles were thrown at a procession taken out to commemorate the event. at the shiv jayanti celebrations on may 4, provocative posters were put up by extremist hindus, seevral of whom also made fiery communal speeches. on may 6, a muslim ex-wrestler cut off the thumb of the man who acted as shivaji in a festival. and, of course, the air was filed with rumours that there would be trouble during the bandh particularly on may 15. there were some stone-throwing incidents at a masjid. the riots spread over several parts of poona and continued unabated till may 18 though curfew had been imposed.... the lal nishan leader a. d. bhosle attributed the riots basically to the traditional antagonism between the neo-buddhist population and muslim traders, the former being the customers of the latter in adjacent localities in poona.... paradoxically, the riots themselves centred around shop-keepers, often small ones. hindu provision sellers in a particular area supplied ample kerosene to the rioters, both before and during the riots, and it was mainly muslim shops that were attacked. the class character of the organisers and benefactors who retaliated is not clear.  times of indiaweekly magazine june 10, 1973 opposition among muslims to singing of vande mtaram
 hyderabad, may 21: six people, including the bridegroom, were injured when a marriage procession was attacked by nearly 25 members of another community, near shaik faiz kaman in rain bazaar area of the old city last night. three constables who attempted to control the situation were also injured. two persons had been rounded up and the police were searching for some others.  toi 5/22/73
riot in sadar bazar  police officials claimed that 29 policemen, including a dig, were injured, three of them seriously. the inspector-general of police, mr. p. r. rajgopal, said the destruction of property would have been more extensive if the police had not taken timely precautions. most traders, however, said the police precautions had been inadequate though violent incidents had been occurring in various parts of the area over the last fortnight. during the week-end, gangsters brandishing knives and daggers had terrorised shoppers and traders in the area. in fact, many traders had observed a hartal yesterday in protest against the complacent attitude of the police.... the inspector-general of police and the deputy commissioner of delhi, mr. v.v. kapoor, told newsmen tension had been building up in the area since last week when a girl belonging to one community was teased by some boys of another community. on sunday, there was a minor clash between the two groups when the eve-teasing was repeated. this escalated into riots. toi 4/14/73js clashed with delhi police on 17th, one of their chief demands being the release of  ...mr. s. n. bansal, their delhi unit general secretary, who was arrested on thursday for allegedly publishing an inflammatory poster.  toi 6/18/73
riots broke out during js protests vs price rises and food shortages. later referred to as communal in toi leaders on 7/17/73 mr g.i. patel, president of the city congress, alleged that  reactionary elements and vested interests  who were opposed to the political change coming in the state were behind the trouble. he said the ahmedabad bandh call given by the student-citizen committee, backed by the jana sangh, congress (o) and vested interests, had completely failed. hence they has a communal turn to the situation [sic].  toi 7/16/73
 a  govinda  procession passing by a place of worship resulted in a riot on bapu khote street, pydhonie, in bombay on wednesday. the trouble arose when those in the place of worship asked the processionists to tone down the volume of their music. a free-for-all ensued in which stones and aereated water bottles were used. the police remained tight-lipped regarding details of the trouble. on person, however, was learnt to have been injured. a  paan  shop and a restaurant were damaged.  toi 8/23/73
 in the wave of violence sweeping many parts of mysore state, a person was fatally stabbed and another was reportedly killed in the police firing in mandya, some 100 km from here [bangalore], today as the student protest against alleged police excesses and the price rise turned into a communal clash.  toi 9/14/73 the mandya episode stands apart. a hardware merchant at guttal, an extension of the town, is alleged to have stabbed to death a student demonstrator, who, along with others, was compelling him to close his shop. rumour spread that a number of people belonging to one community had been stabbed. retaliation was swift and intense. a large number of huts were looted and burnt down. toi 9/23/73
 the recent communal holocaust in poona is an example. the bandh call given by leftist parties degenerated into communal clashes....in ahmedabad...the arson and loot were initially directed against foodgrain shops, but soon the agitation degenerated into communal rioting....a week earlier, indore also witnessed, though on a much smaller scale similar communal disturbances....  engineer  the communal psychosis  toi 9/16/73
eight-hour curfew was reimposed on friday from 10 p.m. in the area under the muthiganj police circle as a measure of precaution.muthiganj witnessed rioting on monday in which two people were killed and 12 injured.  toi 12/15/73
 the riots were sparked by a trivial incident. a young cyclist negotiating a narrow lane in the gudri bazar area accidentally upset a tray of  rewari  (a sweet made of gur and gingili) in front of a shop. the shopkeeper protested and an exchange of hot words followed. the shopkeeper, it is stated, demanded compensation for the loss and grabbed the bicycle from the youth. he is reported to have told the youth that he would return the bicycle only after he was paid. the youth left the shop and returned after a short while with 20 men armed with lathis. the miscreants attacked shops; a few were burnt down and others were looted.... p.t.i. adds: an official spokesman here linked the riots with the visit of mr. h. n. bahuguna [up cm] to meerut on monday.  toi 12/13/73 [mon 10th dec?]
 a minor girl and a boy was injured when the police opened fire to quell two rioting groups in nawapur in dhulia district on saturday night, according to reports received at the state police headquarters in bombay.the police said the trouble arose over the slaughter of a cow. three people had been arrested, nawapur was quiet on monday, the police said. toi 1/8/74
police fired on mob in bhat bazar of central bombay mr. k.p. patil, [maharashtra] minister of state for industries....said the trouble arose over the teasing of a girl. some youths sought an explanation. this resulted in a minor riot in which furniture in a hotel was damaged and cash was stolen. soon, a large numbr of people from two communities confronted one another, armed with stones.... police reinforcements were rushed to the scene and brought the situation under control within 40 minutes. mr. patil stated that the government was aware that certain sections were making deliberate attempts to disturb peace and forment communal trouble. the shiv sena, he stated, had nothing to do with thursday s incident.... mr. manohar joshi (s.s.) accused the police of protecting bad charcters of the locality. mr. d.v. deshpande (ind.) said certain people were making deliberate attempts to foment communal trouble with a view to maligning the name of the chief minister of maharashtra. toi 2/23/74
 jammu: twenty-four people were held today on the charge of disturbing the peace following a clash between the members of two communities here last night.shots were fired during the clash, injuring three people.a government press release said six people, including three policemen, were injured.the chief minister, syed mir qasim, appealed for police. toi 3/10/74
 arson, looting and stone-throwing were reported on saturday after some people sprinkled coloured water and powder on another group.the additional district magistrate, mr. r.r. dube, said this evening that no untoward incident had been reported in the past 54 hours anf the situation was under control. over 30 people had been arrested so far for various offences.  toi 3/12/74
 the eight-hour curfew, clamped on the town last night following a clash between two groups, was reimposed from 7 p.m. till 6 a.m. tomorrow as a precautionary measure, the deputy commissioner, mr. s.k. saha. two persons were killed and six injured when the police fired seven rounds to quell mob violence at doranda, near the town, yesterday.  toi 4/3/74
 the curfew was imposed on the two towns on thursday following group clashes, arson, and looting.the death roll in the borsad firing rose to five with one more person succumbing to injuries at a baroda hospital. toi 4/15/74 four people were killed and 15 injured, ten of them seriously, when the police fired over 50 rounds to quell riots in borsad town in kaira district last night following a clash between two groups.... curfew was also clamped on anand.... the inspector-general of police, mr. p. m. pant, said that tension had been building up in borsad town since tuesday after an incident in ehich two boys were beaten up by a group of people. in a faction-fight yesterday evening rival groups threw stones at each other. later, the supporters of the group to which the two boys belonged was reported to have thrown burning rags in three localities setting fire to three shops and two houses. the police, along with the members of the newly-formed peace committee went round the town appealing to the people to desist from violence. however, the incidents continued and the police fired 55 rounds to control the situation, mr. pant said. toi 4/13/74
 new delhi, may 5eight people were killed and 50 injured in a clash between groups belonging to two communities in the sadar bazar complex in the old city this afternoon. the army was immediately alerted, and the bsf called in. curfew has been clamped in the area from 5 p.m. to 9a.m. tomorrow. according to eye witnesses, the police opeend fire after tear-gas shells failed to disperse the violent mob. among the injured was the dig of delhi range, mr. v.p. marwah, and 15 other police personnel. ten firemen including a fire officer also sustained bullet wounds. the trouble is said to have started over a quarrel between two persons in the azad market. times of india may 6, 1974
 two persons were killed and 20 persons were injured when the police opened fire to quell a riotous mob at hingoli in parbhani district of maharashtra on monday night....the police said that a 8,000 strong procession, taken out by the hingoli municipal council to celebrate the tri-centenary of the coronation of shivaji, was stoned as it passed by a place of worship. this led to riots, and the police opened fire. one person was killed instantly and another died in hospital. times of india june 12, 1974 there were no fresh incidents on wednesday at hingoli, in parbhani district, the scene of riotous incidents on monday night in which two people were killed in police firing and 20 injured in stone throwing. times of india june 13, 1974hingoli town was within the borders of hyderabad state
 a bride and her groom were forced to flee to safety when their marriage procession was stoned at the junction of nanubhai desai road and islampura lane on sunday night. the police said trouble started when the residents of islampura lane objected to the playing of music when the procession neared the area. stones, soda-water bottles and bricks were freely used. the police have arrested mohameed maqbool ali, farud ahmed abdul majid, mohammed ahmed, aziz jangmulla and 32 others. times of india june 26, 1974
 indore, august 6: a 15-hour curfew from 6 p.m. was imposed to-day as a precautionary measure within the municipal limits of khargone town where clashes between rival groups had led to police firing on sunday. toi aug 7. 1974
 the bombay police fired one round in the air in the null bazar area in the early hours of wednesday to disperse two groups of people throwing stones and aereated-water bottles at each other. the police control room said no one was injured in the firing and that the situation had been brought under control. police reinforcements had been rushed to the spot. the cause of the clash was not known. toi aug 28, 1974
 the muhund police arrested 15 people, 11 of them shiv sainiks, on cross-complaints of rioting on monday....the police said that previous enmity between the two groups led to the rioting in which three people were injured....the police also arrested 53 people from sun mill lane on charges of rioting in which a ganapati procession and the dwellers of a chawl clashed. two persons sustained minor injuries.  toi oct 2, 1974
 a 20-year old man, mohammed kadir, was killed instantly when the police opened fire from muskets and revolvers to quell a fight between two groups of people at jogeshwari. a bombay suburb, late on thursdday night. the riot started when a boy from one of the groups was attacked by four boys from the other group following an altercation. 
 indore, dec 1: the police todasy made a mild lathi-charge on two clashing grousp in the daulat ganj area when the groups indulged in throwing stones at the police. the situation was now officially under control. no arrests had been made so far, the police said. prohibitory orders under section 144 cr. p. c. were immediately promulgated covering the central kotwali area of the city.  toi dec 2, 1974
 four people were killed and eight injured, six of them by police bullets, in widespread rioting and arson by two groups of people in jogeshwari, a northwestern bombay suburb, on sunday afternoon.  of the four killed, one died when the police opened fire to quell the rioting after lathi-charges and tear-gas failed to have any effect. his name was given as shaikh ahmed shaikh kasam (32). the charred body of ismail hussein (40) was found by firemen in the ashes of babu miya chawl at meghwadi. a third man, still unidentified, was found injured in a nullah near majaswadi by the police, but died in hospital. a woman, pramila prabhakar wagle, 55, also died in the hospital of bullet injuries. according to the police, the trouble started around 2.30 p.m. during a cricket match on meghwadi maidan. riots quickly erupted in other localities of jogeshwari. two people were treated for minor stab injuries. this is the secpond time in less than three months that jogeshwari has been rocked by riots. trouble had erupted there early in november and continued for several dfays. p.t.i. adds: the total number of injured in hte incidents has gone up to 36, 11 of whom were admitted to hospital, the police said. toi jan 28, 1975
 hazaribagh, march 29: incidents of violence over passing of a holi revellers  procession by the side of a mosque here yesterday have left five people seriously injured. the ppolice made 15 arrests. toi march 30, 1975
 varanasi, march 29: azamgarh town, about 100 km from here, has been under curfew since wednesday night following violent clashes between two groups on the eve of holi, according to a delayed report received here.the report said three people injured in the clash have been admitted to hospital. some shops were looted. one shop was set on fire. curfew was relaxed for two hours on thursday and friday. the district auuthorities today claimed that the situation was under control. about 100 people have been taken into custody. toi march 30, 1975
 poona, april 1: an order uunder section 144, cr. p. c. was promulgated in the pimpri area today, banning the carrying of lethal weapons, the assembly of five or more persons, and taking out processions or morchas. the order was imposed following clashes between two communities in pimpri yesterday. minor incidents of looting and arson were also reported. late last night, stray cases of stone-throwing and assault were also reported. twenty-four people had been arrested. the clashes were a sequel to a quarrel between students of the two communities a few days ago, toi april 2, 1975
 indore, april 6: a major portion of the western part of the city was brought under curfew fro 5.30 p.m. today after an altercation between the driver of a three-wheeler and a youth led to clashes between two groups in the malharganj area. the police separated the groups after lathi-charging, tear-gassing and firing in the air.the city superintendent of police, mr. surjeet singh, two officers, a constable and six others were injured in the stone-throwing, the police said. section 144, cr. p.c., has also been enforced in the affected area for seven days.as the police were trying to disperse the rioters an unknown person fired a shot from a countrymade gun on a group in the nearby luharpatti area. toi april 7, 1975
 patna, april 24.a dusk-to-dawn curfew has been imposed on hazaribagh town following clashes between two groups of people resulting in the death of three persons during the past 48 hours, according to reports received here yesterday. the bihar government chief secretary, mr. saran singh, confirmed the death of one person today but declined either to confirm or deny the imposition of curfew. he said the situation was now under control. mr. singh said a large number of people, including bad characters, had been rounded up following the clashes which started in the wake of  ram navami  celebrations. one victim of the clashes was a pwd employee who was reportedly stabbed to death in mukundganj village near hazaribagh town. earlier, a rickshaw puller and a shopkeeper were killed in stray incidents of stabbing during past few days. toi april 25, 1975
 three people were killed and 11 injured when the police opened fire to quell a riot at malegaon in nasik district on monday night.... giving details of the incident, mr. chavan said that, according to information available, the trouble started over an altercationat a pan shop....earlier mr. dhongde said the malegaon riots did not erupt suddenly. communal organisations had been building up tensions for quite some time. toi april 3, 1975 ...the death-roll in the police firing increased to four on tuesday night, with one more person succumbing to his injuries in hospital. toi april 4, 1975
 seven people were injured when the police fired two rounds at yawal, 40km, from jalgaon, on tuesday morning to separate two violent groups while a shivaji jayanti procession was passing through the streets. according to the police control room in bombay, a section of the people objected to the playing of music by the processionists near a place of worship. stones were thrown at the procession from housetops, the police said. when a mild lathi-charge proved in vain, two rounds were fired. two officers and 12 policemen were injured in the stone throwing... toi may 14, 1975
 there were a number of rioting incidents in bombay at the week-end. in the first case, two police constables and a 35-year old man were injured in a fracas on saturday night in the kamathipura area. the police said that around 11.30 p.m. a young man, asgar ali anwar ali, who had gone to kamathipura with his friend, saidal rahman, in a car, was pulled out by six people, who surrounded the car. one of the miscreants threw areated-water bottles at the car and smashed its rear wind-shield. asgar ali managed to jump back into the vehicle and drive away.  the violence then spread to the surrounding areas and caused considerable tension. police constable pandurang dharmaji mokal, who with five others rushed to the spot, became the target of flying areated bottles and sustained injuries. toi june 3, 1975
 akola, december 15: four people were killed in a clash between two groups of people in the village of kapileshwar under the borgaon manju police station, about 40kms from here last night. according to the district magistrate, mr. d. m. naik, 12 people were arrested. the situation was normal, he added. toi dec 16, 1975
 baroda, january 17: the gujarat chief minister, mr. babubhai patel, today said the state government had no intention to appoint an inquiry committee to probe the recent disturbances in baroda, nadiad and petlad. at these places, the disturbances were sparked over an identical issue of kite flying, he said. toi jan 18, 1976
 baroda, january 17: the gujarat chief minister, mr. babubhai patel, today said the state government had no intention to appoint an inquiry committee to probe the recent disturbances in baroda, nadiad and petlad. at these places, the disturbances were sparked over an identical issue of kite flying, he said. toi jan 18, 1976
 baroda, january 17: the gujarat chief minister, mr. babubhai patel, today said the state government had no intention to appoint an inquiry committee to probe the recent disturbances in baroda, nadiad and petlad. at these places, the disturbances were sparked over an identical issue of kite flying, he said. toi jan 18, 1976
police firing took place whena group of people tried to enter into the premises of the mahila college where a charity qawali programme was on. no other information is available.
a madhu ramchandra kadam went to a bidi shop and asked its owner, mohammed rehman, for a free pack of cigarettes. rehman refused and called the police after which kadam swore at him and fled. later, he returned with 5 friends and assaulted him with hockey sticks and aerated water bottles. the police arrived and arrested kadam but his friends were absconding.
two persons were killed in a clash between two groups at zezari, following a quarrel among children.
the village sarpanch and the police had called some srp personnel when the villagers were negotiating a dispute between two groups regarding damaged crops. when the sarpanch did not agree to the villagers  demand to remove the srp men, they attacked 2 srp jawans. one srp jawan opened fire and two people died.

two groups of youths partcipating in the ganapati immersion procession clashed, freely using sticks and aerated water bottles.
there was a clash between two groups when a dasara procession was taken out in front of a mosque.there was stone-throwing, arson and looting. 40 shops were set on fire. among the injured was an inspector and two sub-inspectors. the police opened fire to disperse the crowds.
the rioting was caused by a  controversy  over the durga puja procession. one is led to believe that the controversy involved prescribed routes.
curfew was reclamped after renewed incidents of arson, stabbing and stone-throwing were reported from in the chowk area today.
the clash took place when some miscreants threw stones at a passing muharram procession. there were cases of arson reprtes too. the police burst tear gas shells to disperse the crowds.
4/2 congress general-secretary qureishi wants inquiry into violence. 13 reported as killed. toi 4/3toi 4/7 extended report. event on 3/29. started as brawl got out of hand. violence restricted to bazaar area and did not spread to residential areas. 16 dead. town is 75% muslim. police after trouble permitted demonstrations by congress and one by ex muslim league leader manzar shafi. reporter suggests violence is more class war than communal.toi 4/7 muslim league of up and maharashtra wants probe.toi 4/8 reports that authorities were lax. large numbers of firearms in moradabad district and sambhal.toi 4/9 janata mp s murli manohar joshi and h.n. bahuguna visit and then report to union home minister charan singh. blame district authorities. want police stations increased from 1 to 3 and recommend stationing of pac (provincial armed constabulary) in area.
3/31 alleged rape of rameza bee and killing of husband ahmed hussain by police leads to violence. police fire on mobs. 1 killed and 3 injured. police commissioner suspended sub-inspector and 2 constables involved in rameza assault. toi 4/14/1 more violence. oppositon calls bandh. tear gas fired. toi 4/2 4/2 pm sends arif baig to hyderabad. cenna reddy asks mrs. roda mistry ( a minister) to take baig to see rameza bee in hospital. cenna reddy blames naxalites for violence. toi 4/34/3 army and crp called in. 9 killed, 89 injured. janata, cpm and majilis call for bandh and want inquiry into bee incident and initial police firing. toi 4/44/5 city reported as calm. a muslim leader wants army withdrawn. 350 arrested, including 2 mla s (baquer agha, amanullah khan) and 1 ex mla (ahmed hussain) of majilis ittehadul muslimeen. toi 4/6.4/7 police claim seized documents show naxalite role in andhra violence. sub-inspector and 2 constables in bee incident charged with rape. toi 4/8.4/28 riot probe starts under justice k.muktadar. toi 4/29.
4/16 at ram navami festival procession tried to enter a prohibited route in doranda locality of town. police posted there tried to turn back crowd, attacked and several injured, police fired. toi 4/18.
report of group clashes. 1 died, 23 injured, 10 arrested. munuswamy calling for meeting of civic leaders to discuss problems. toi 4/18.recent communal violence makes this almost a definite.
report of 1 woman killed and 3 injured in 2 groups clash over land dispute. toi 4/26.  don t know if darhal is village or town. rajouri is border district. as it is kashmir have put it as strong possibility.
police had to open fire to disperse a mob that surrounded a police van. toi 5/4.not well reported.
mattan ancient temple town. dispute over common path leading to 2 places of worship. police fire tear gas. toi 7/13.see next record. no.25.
7/29 dispute over control of land used by hindus and muslims. sheikh abdullah ordered waqf flag removed. leads to protest. 2 killed. 3 police injured. judicial inquiry ordered. sadhus carrying chhari mubarak for amarnath shrine try to pass through. toi 7/307/30 women defy curfew and clash with police. toi 7/318/1 mp s urge protection for pilgrims. toi 8/2toi 8/3 extended report. 1936 dispute over land settled by agreement to share. hindu pilgrims to amarnath pass through here. now dispute reopened. sadhus threatened to call off vatra unless flag removed. impending arrival of pilgrims to amarnath heightened need to settle dispute soon.
8/15 arrested man died in hospital. mob wanted body back, police fire. section 144 cr. p.c imposed, assemblies banned. toi 8/16toi 8/18 reporting trouble in coimbatore (see record 28) says man who died in palani was one ibrahim. muslim name suggest possible communal overtones to clash.
opposition led protest against killing of ibrahim in palani (see record 27, and toi 8/16). 7 police injured. toi 8/18
clash between kavadi procession on way to muruga (kartikeya) temple and group in front of mosque.1 dead and 30 injured. a similar event had occurred a few weeks ago. section 144 cr. p.c. promulgated. toi 8/27.
8/28 1) petty quarrel . muslim shopkeeper assaulted. 2) police intervene between 2 groups. both incidents trigger more violence. shoot at sight orders given. crp not immediately available so karnataka police called up. pavitran and rao visited areas. toi 8/29.8/30 more violence. 55 arrested bringing total to 400. toi 8/30.8/30 and 8/31 reported calm, toi 8/31 and 9/1.
9/3 idols of seven sisters missing from pochamma temple and precincts polluted. leads to group clash. 26 injured, 80 arrests. curfew imposed. toi 9/49/4 more clashes. 1 killed 3 injured. 200+ arrested. toi 9/59/5 1 injured in stabbing incident. c.reddy addresses ganesh chaturthi -id--ul-fitr mulaquat crowds and appeals for peace. toi 9/69/7curfew lifted toi 9/89/9 janata sends team to city, they visit on 9/13. kishore lal, m.n. hannan, rodrigues. toi 9/10 and toi 9/14.9/10 imam bukhari accuses charan singh and janata of responsibility for anti-muslim violence. toi 9/119/17 cpi stir. clash with police, who lathi charge and tear gas. 22 injured.
clash occured at dhad over procession taking ganesh image for immersion through a locality.collector and sp rushed to the area. 32 injured. toi 9/17dhad is 30 km from buldan, don t know state.
2 janata mp s saeed murtaza and rasheed masood called for inquiry into clash between traders and students in which 3 students were killed at baraut (date not given). they accused government of indifference. toi 9/26have included this report because protest is by 2 muslim mp s, so could have communal nature?
10/5 death of person stabbed earlier sparks off violence. 6 killed, several injured. toi 10/610/6 pac, crpf deployed. shoot at sight orders given. death toll now 10. army on standby. toi 10/710/7 1 more dies of wounds, total now 11. toi 10/810/13 bagla suggests punitive fines on areas where violence occurred. mrs. moshina kidwai, upcc (i) president claims 150-200 dead and 170 missing. blames rss and jan sangh. toi 10/1410/16 1 more dies of wounds, toll now 12, tension rises again. 4 janata mp s say clash not communal: jagannathrao joshi, jagdish prasad mathur, hari shankar bhabhra (all 3 rajya sabha) and kanwarlal gupta (lok sabha). say clashes were really between 2 wrestlers groups. 5 officials suspended: city magistrate, deputy sp and 3 more police officials. blame shifts off bagla. these officials allowed dead wrestler bhura s body to be taken from hospital. additional sp sent on long leave for beating an rss and kisan mazdoor morcha workers. up minister ram prakash denies rss role. toi 10/1710/17 a janata leader chandrashekhar denies rss role. another leader raj narain blames rssram naresh yadav orders judicial probe. toi 1018toi 10/19 and toi 10/20 long reports on aligarh riots. say backdrop of stabbing incidents. spark was killing of bhura, a wrestler, probably for personal rivalry. pac bad, but crpf did well. reports consensus that riots were not communal, but k.navman city janata leader openly has rss connections (but he blames congress for riots).10/24 all-india sampradayikta virodhi committee says many believe state government and rss in collusion. also that buisnessmen want muslims out of manek chowk to get property.toi 10/26 article by inder malhotra, claims 188 communal riots in 1977, 137 so far in 1978. these riots critical because of first explicit link of rss to violence.i have listed, under causes, previous violence as other, perhaps it could be communal?interesting that toi agree consensus that riots were not communal, but show that muslims were picked out for attack. extended coverage, though violence for only one day suggests that these riots were considered very significantfinal toll for october riots: 12 killed, 50 injured. toi 11/7.
10/12 clash when dasara procession goes via mosque. 1 killed by police, 1 killed in stabbing. last year communal riots occured at dasara so the district collector and sp were already camping in the area before violence occurred. toi 10/1310/13 1 more killing, 150 arrests. toi 10/14
clash between 2 communities over theft of crops by one of the communities. 12 injured. section 37 (i) if bombay police act invoked, banning processions and carrying of weapons. situation now normal.toi 11/29unsure if akot is town or village. no details of police action.
quarrel between children sparks off group clash in wadi area. police fire. 1 killed and 1 injured. toi 11/5
11/6 2 killed, 6 injured. police, pac and crp in action. toi 11/711/7 more clashes, s.s. bisen, l.s. verma, b.w. tandon and ghosh in city. injured for 11/6 is 10. toi 11/811/8 police fire. bsf rushed in. dead is 5, 12 injured, 31 arrests. v.k. dewan made new district magistrate. congress i, cpi and parts of congress walk out of state legislature. toi 11/911/9 10 more die, dead upto 12, 12 more injured. replacement of bagla and prasad resented my muslims. mahinder singh and bsf director general in city. toi 11/1011/10 more clashes. 19 more arrests, 26 in all in last 48 hours. chief minister ram naresh yadav arrives in city to take charge. sp of nainital jagmohan saxena new sp of aligarh. toi 11/11toi 11/ inder malhotra reports pac as discredited hence bsf called in, and that fight between muslims triggered this violence.11/11 dewan and saxena in charge now. toll 15 dead, 37 injured, 220 arrested. bsf strengthened.former city janata president k.navman and son named in fir and are evading arrest. muslims state that they want bagla back as distrcit magistrate. shankar dayal sharma led congress (i) delegation arrives in city. toi 11/1211/12 sheikh abdullah criticises government for not protecting muslims. a subdued id observation in city. shankar dayal sharma calls for pac to be withdrawn as both communities don t like it and calls for ban on rss. toi 11/1311/13 minorites commission head, ansari, says he may quit. toi 11/1411/17 janata yuva morcha and vidyarthi parishad try to cause trouble again. toi 11/1811/18 chief minister promises to prosecute even high officials if involved in violence. toi 11/1911/19 chandra shekhar visits city. toi 11/20toi 1121 and toi 11/22 extended reports on aligarh. cause was fight between two muslims on 11/6. authorities bungle with lifting curfew on 11/8. pac shooting of 5 muslims controversial, though some feel it helped to prevent worse violence. massive troop deployment in city. distinctive feature of november as opposed to october riots is that low caste hindus living next to muslims were savagely attacked this time, whereas last time were left alone. conflict between muslims and high caste hindus caused low caste to dragged in (don t state who dragged them in). reports cid sp from lucknow in aligarh.11/25 arms seized in city. toi 11.2611/26 prime minister moraji desai visits city, tells state governement to deal firmly with riots. toi 11/27.12/2 minorities commission report ready. toi 12/3.
kite flying at shastri nagar in dharavi led to 2 groups clashing. police rush to spot and lathi charge and fire in air. 26 arrested. toi 11/20. report filed from bombay. not sure where dharavi is.
12/2 past 2 months of agitation by students (against regional imbalances, see 12/13) police lathi charge, tear gas and firing. army troops patrol. 1 killed. toi 12/312/4 in lok sabha, dr. karan singh calls for judicial inquiry into police firing. toi 12/512/10 sheikh abdullah accuses karan singh of stirring trouble. students reject a.n. saraf as one man inquiry because he is in the government (kashmir). army deny being in charge of poonch. toi 12/11.
toi 12/13 reports that in stabbings on 12/8 1 died, 1 injured and 116 arrested since. no further details.
12/11 more violence. bsf and crpf patrol. sheikh abdullah agrees to change person in charge of inquiry and appoints high court judge. 5 janata mp s visit. report that things can turn communal if firing of 12/2 is not handled correctly (it is their statement which makes me suggest strong chance of communal character to both poonch incidents. record 45 and 46). toi 12/1212/12 agitation to end. abdullah accepts all of students demands. g.m. mir poonch, part of 3 man delegation which met abdullah, announced end to protest. qualified candidates rejected for post will be taken. toi 12/13.12/26 5 janata mp s: baldev singh (mp for poonch), ambika prasad, satya dev singh, nathan singh and rudrasein chowdhary call for judicial inquiry (all mp s sound non-muslim, makes me wonder if agitators were hindu?). toi 12/27
toi 12/13 reports 1 stabbing. have included this as it is in aligarh and past violence.
toi 12/16 reports 1 stabbing and bomb explosion on 12/15. 1 child died. v.k dewan imposed curfew as precautionary measure.
toi 12/23 reports from bijapur, that police fired at jamkhandi, 1 killed, 1 injured. looting and arson occurred. deputy sp hurt. merchants led by an mlc protest that police were inactive while they were attacked. (if mlc is some muslim group, violence could be communal). guessing that bijapur is in andhra.
a number of cases of stbbing and arson sparked off the violence. two groups clashed subsequent to that in which many firearms and bombs were u sed freely
2020 rss men stormed train compartments containig 100 amu students and beat them up. the students were going to delhi to demnd the restoration of the  minority character  of the university
the rioting occurred subsequent to a bomb explosion in which 40 people were arrested for connections to the incident
a curfew was imposed following a riotous attack by one group of worshippers in a mosque upon another. many were injured including 4 policemen and 4 firemen.
celebrations of rajyotsava and bakr id coincided. both muslims and hindus were out celebrating and clashed over the issue of who owned a certain piece of land in chamarajpet.
rioting, looting, arson, stabbings were reported in the city following the  outrage  against the grand mosque in mecca
neighbourhoods: charminar; laldarwaza, gowlipura, aliabad, syedali, chabutra, doodhbowli (toi 01/04/80)* reported cause: broadly speaking, the reported cause was political elections (lok sabha). the riot either consisted of or was followed by a clash between janata and majlis-e-muslimeen workers. p.v. pavithran, the police commissioner, cancelled all election meetings following the clash, saying that poll clashes and communal feuds were taking a communal turn. it is important to note that pavithran described the clash aone  between two persons belonging to different communities over an old quarrel  thus private quarrel should be listed as a second reported cause. third, it is not clear that political (factional fighting) could not also be listed as a cause, but if so, it is not separate with political [lok sabha]. finally, the article cites previous  communal frenzy  in the city beginning november 23, 1979, although this is not reported as a cause. (toi, 01/04/80](lprecipitating event: fatal stabbing of ram prasad, a janata worker (toi 01/04/80)general: janata party general secretary v. rama rao said that the violence was engineered by the majlis-e-itehadul muslimeen at the instigation of the congress i (toi, 01/04/80). on january 7, the chief of the majlis, salahuddin oweisi and other majlis leaders, as well as janata general secretary rama rao and other janata leaders, are arrested on suspicion of fomenting communal clashes. [toi, 01/08/80]
neighbourhood: mohammed ali road (toi: 1/22/80)* not entirely clear that this is a communal riot. could also be a police vs single group (police v/s muslim) riot.


although this event is clearly reported as a communal clash, it takes the form of an attack on a sweeper s colony, which leads me to believe that it is over caste rather than religion. because there is not sufficient evidence to reject this outright, i have entered it as a small probability case.
neighbourhood: maqbara abu road, delhi-dehradun road, kaiserganj polling station compound. cause: the clash was between supporters of the main contenders for the vidhan sabha seat, manzoor ahmad (congress-i) and mohan lal kapoor (bjp). according to the report  during a 40-minute free-for-all, realignment of groups was said to have taken place. forgetting political affiliations, the supporters of both candidates allegedly regrouped themselves on communal lines.  (toi: 5/29/80)precipitating event:  objections raised by the polling agents of the two main aspirants over  fake voters  at the town school verandah polling station.
chief minister v. p. singh says that  reports from local residents had convinced him that it was not a communal riot  and that  anybody who described the trouble as a communal riot was doing a great disservice to society.  in the meantime, h.n. bahugana  had described the rit as communal rioting and charged the district administration with negligence and inefficiency.  (toi, 06/11/80)
no specific figures or causes are available. the riot took place after large scale killings in tripura.
no specific figures or causes are available. the riot took place after large scale killings in tripura.
no specific figures or causes are available. the riot took place after large scale killings in tripura.

the clash occurred  over the sale of mangoes  (toi 06/19/80)

clash between harijan and an  unidentified minority community neighbourhood: balirampeth, katapile, senipeth, gurunanak nagaraction taken: chief minister antulay announced an inquiry by a high court judge into the riot. in a statement to the state legislative assembly, he also promised to take action against the state administratin, ips and ias, if found guilty. he said that  the clash was not communal but emphasised that all communal riots in the country had arisen out of  non-communal  incidents.  (toi, 07/15/80)
neighbourhood: katra shaheed the trouble arose when some persons offering namaz in a mosque asked a harijan marriage procession to stop beating drums. the harijans refused to do so. this led to an exchange of brickbats between the two sides.  (toi, 07/26/80)
cause and precipitating event: quarrel over the parking of an autorickshaw (toi, 08/06/80) although it initially describes the event as a group clash, the report later refers to  tension between the communities  (toi, 08/08/80). i therefore classify it as definite.
cause and precipitating event: dispute over grazing rights.* chief minister jyoti basu refers to the violence as being communal in nature. (toi, 08/08/80) not clear whether this is one event or a series of separate incidents. i have assumed the former, and classified it as a communal riot.
neighbourhood: tilak chowk, par naka, dudh naka8/10/80; 8/11/80; 8/12/80;8/16/80figures for killed and injured and arrested are total figures, encompassing the previous violence in kalyan from august 6-8 as well as the fresh violence.although the initial report does not describe it as communal, a later one (toi, 08/16/80) refers to the communal violence. i also classify it as a definite case because of the link with previous communal violence in kalyan; because the names of the victims, when provided are all muslimthe report details the history of communal tension and violence preceding this latest outbreak and refers to kalyan as a  powder keg .  at the heart of the rising passions is a  mosque-temple  in durgadi fort near the town overlooking kalyan creek. both ommunities have claimed it excluslively as their own. the matter is now pending before the civil court.....the clash on august 5 that triggered off the present violence did not have anything to do with the  mosque-temple  issue. according to one version, an autorickshaw operator of one community took some passengers to an area where the other community lives. he ws easing himself at a gutter near a well, when somebody objected and beat him up. according to the other version, the rickshaw operator had parked the vehicle before a spare-parts shop when someone insisted that he remove it and a fracas started.
this is a major communal riot between muslims and the police with repercussions in lucknow, meerut, delhi, bareilly, ranipur, kanpur, sambhal and other surrounding areas. the (toi 8/21/80) suggests that a prominent muslim league leader engineered the trouble.  the admission by the president of the parallel muslim league, dr. shamim ahmed khan, that the mysterious pig had appeared in the nullah behind the muslim league tent near the eidgah before intruding into the congregation is cited in support of this view. yesterday s detention of dr. khan speaks for itself.  (toi 8/21/80a newsreport also blames the khaskar party.  the re-emergence of the khaskar party, which under allame mashriqi in pre-independence india had indulged in direct action for the creation of pakistan, is seen as a significant factor in the outbreak of riots.  (toi 8/18/80) the indian union muslim league led by sulaiman sait held  communal  elements in the pac responsible and called for their replacement by central forces like the crp, bsf and army. (toi, 08/25/80)responding to allegations that the  foreign hand  was behind the riot, the home minister replied that  it may be a foreign hand or it may be a local hand.  the police did not deny reports that arms and ammunition with foreign markings were seized in moradabad.(toi 08/17/80) the toi notes:  officials do not rule out a concentratio of arms and ammunition in the hands of the minority community in moradabad purschased with the large amount of money pumped by some west asian countries. these countries are pumping scores of rupees in an islamic institute five km from moradabad.  (toi 08/17/80) however, the next day:  dharam vir mehta, senior superintendent of police, todya denied press reports that foreign arms had been seized in the town.  (toi, 08/18/80) officials here are also inclined to believe that these riots were engineered by some muslim orgnizations mainly to thwart an amicable settlement of the foreigners  problem in assam. the talks on this issue are due to be held in shillong on august 18. though some bengali hindu refugees have expressed apprehension over the proposed settlement in assam, it is mainly the muslim immigrants who have been vehemently agitating to demand that no solution should be accepted without there consent.  (toi, 08/17/80)although the riot is described as being between the minority community and the police, associated incidents include houses set on fire and other violence, suggesting that there was also civil violence.
 groups  not identified. but it is clear that one of them is muslim. the clash occured when  the victims were going to offer id prayers, when five people intercepted them in a bazar area. a hot exchange of words followed, which soon turned itno a fierce clash.  (toi, 08/14/80)
neighbourhood hall: imamia hall, near panchkuian road.although this report is clubbed together along with the report on the moradabad riot, it is not clear whether the two events took place simultaneously or whether one followed the other. the report does not link the two events and i therefore do the same in the database.precipitating event:  the dispute was over the possession of a tea stall within the premises of imamia hall. about 200 people after offering morning prayers gathered at the stall asking the owner to move out. they cited a court order to press their claim. there was an altercation as the tea-stall owner refused to oblige them.  (toi, 08/14/80)
cause:  the trouble started when muslims, agitated over the moradabad riots, decided to observe independence day as  black day.  yesterday morning some students assembled at moti chowk and after histing the national flag raised slogans like  bharat mata ki jai.  the musims in their turn shouted  allahoakbar.  frenzy gripped the town as looting ensued.(toi, 08/17/80) the flag hoisters are later identified as congressmen (toi 08/22/80)
neighbourhood: jama masjid, ballraman, darya ganj, kamla market, turkman gate, abori gate, hauz quaei and kotwala,. (toi, 08/15/80)the riot hit area  was plastered with posters in urdu and hindi demanding justice for the moradabad incident. one said   kala din. id ke din par khoon ki hole. hamare saath anyay kyon?   some persons alleged that trouble arose after the id prayers at the jam masjid. residents, however, said that there had been no communal trouble in the area since 1947 and both communities had lived peacefully. all stressed this point. (toi 8/16/80) according to the minister of state for home affairs, yogendra makwana, speaking during an interview on all india radio:  these elements appeal to have been inspired from outside the country.  (toi, 08/17/80)according to an analysis comparing this riot to a previous one in 1975:  there is one more common feature between the two occurrences -- the role and behaviour of the jana sangh, now the bharatiya janata party. as in 1975, so now it has tried to stay away from the arena of conflict. in fact, rss volunteers were reportedly given specific directives five years ago nt to go anywhere near the trouble spots. this time the leaders of the bjp, notably mr. v. k. malhotra and mr. k. n. sahani, have been keen on underlining that the majority of muslims were not in favour f showing disrespect to the national flag unfurled in various localities by different leaders on independence day. they have quoted two instances when the flags, fter being removed by some young muslim ruffians, were retreived by elderly and responsible muslims and returned to  their counterparts  in the majority community. according to the two bjp leaders the whole trouble was fomented by a handful of goodnas protected by the congress i leaders who had  earlier found these toughs useful during the elections.   (m. shamim,  ugly delhi riots x-rayed  , toi 08/21/80)
 groups  not identified. this clash is probably linked to the moradabad riot aug 13-19. it is consistently described in newsreports as part of the wave of rioting in u.p. huge quantities of arms and ammunitions have been recovered during searches in the disturbed areas, it was officially state. in bareilly, 121 factory made and 13 country-dame firearms were discovered easterday.  (toi, 08/28/80)
this is likely to have been a police-muslim riot. the newspaper report however, describes it as the police firing on a violent mob without identifying the mob in communal terms. (toi, 8/18/80)cause and precipitating event:  the mob was stated to be protesting against the moradabad incidents.  (toi, 08/17/80)large quantities of arms were seized in searches conducted by the police. the arms seized included guns, pistols, daggers and knives/  (toi, 08/18/80)
this is described as a group clash during the moradabad muslim-police riot. there is some possiblity that it is communal nature, although the overall thrust seems to be minority-police and not hindu muslim violence.
the newsreport does not explicitly identify this as a police-muslim clash, but the text seems to make it obvious. not a hindu-muslim riot.precipitating event:  trouble started brewing in the area when the youth started taking out a processio to protest against the moradabad incidents.  (toi, 8/17/80)neighbourhood: khanijar zainakadal, mahaganjpolice cracked down heavily on jamaat-i-islami and the jamiat-e-tulaba (toi, 08/19/80; 08/21/80) on august 23, the jammu and kashmir governor, l. k. jha, promulgated an ordinance to provide for deterrent punhshment for oeffences relating to religion, rioting and communal affraysm seemingly in response to the waves of rioting elsewhere in north india. ... the chief secretary, giving the background to the ordinance, told newsmen that its promugation had to be viewed in the light of the recent disturbances and also as the courts had revealed the inadequacy of the existing provisions in the penal code. insignificant incidents led to major communal clashes. fortunately jammu and kashmir had, by and large, been free from such disturbances.  (toi, 08/24/80)

not explicitly described as a communal riot. i include it because newsreports relate it to the moradabad riot of aug 13-19. neighbourhood: khuldahad; muthiganj; guddia talab, shahaganj
there si some confusion here about 1) whether this is a riot or isolated violent incidents involving individuals and 2) whether the riot is commnunal in nature. i identify it as a probable case because it is linked with previous probable police -- muslim violence in aligarh(toi, 08/19/80)
 both the stabbings, which occurred in the same locality and resulted in the death of the victims, were officially lined with group clashes that occurred in the town more than a month ago.  (toi, 9/8/80)neighbourhood: kisan chowk, kabirpara, harshad mill, vara vad, bhanushah vad, arya samaj road.
neighbourhood: madar gate, phoolchowk, barain gate the trouble in aligarh started as a closing of shops in protest against the arrest of the two local journalists last night.  (toi, 09/09/80)
this is a clash between two groups and not a police-single group clash, although the groups, not identified.neighbourhood: nau basti, rehti, bara daru, deputy ganj, pir khana, lal masjid, kuccha baugh, ghas mandi, baradari. the state government has created a new dvision of moradabad in order to maintain law and order in the most sensitive districts of moradabad, rampur and bijnor. ... bareilly division, to which these districts belonged, has been split and will now consist of shahjahanpur, badaun and pilibhit districts. this will be the 12th division in the state with a separate police range. he said whjile mr. r. c. takru would be commissioner of the new division, mr. k. d. sharma would be the new deputy inspector general of police(toi, 09/12/80)
groups  not identified.
groups  not identified.
neighbourhood: jahurpura, station road
the riot was preceded by tension and isolated incidents of violence.  following renewed violence, some leaders, including dr. hansraj chopra and mr. prem shankar sharma of the bharatiya janata party; maulvi rais ashraf, a member of the khaksarane hak organistion and mr, i.a. khan were arrested.  (tot 10/31/80)neighbourhood:
neighbourhood: coolibazar, anwarganj, badshinaka
precipitating event: brawl at a country liquor shop involving members of two communities (toi 05/02/81)underlying cause:  tension between the two communities had been building up for some time becuase of a dispute over a graveyard. it is stated that an idol was installed in the neighbourhood of a graveyard in trhe gagandiwan locality some time ago. as this became the cause of friction between the two communities the administration ordered the barricading of the graveyard and also set up a police post nearby.....on thursday afternoon, in the gagandiwan locality, a toddy tapper had placed his pot on the gground. this pot was reportedly carried away by two youths belonging to another community. when the tapper protested, it led to a brawl. more people collected tere and the brawl turned tinto a riot.  (toi, 5/4/81) the riot spread from biharsharif to at least 20 villages, only some of which are named. the figures given here are the combined totals for all of nalanda district.  the discovery of a good wagon loaded with bombs, officially described as of  highly explosive nature  near biharsharif some days ago has heightened apprehensions about the violence.  (toi, 05/02/81) a huge quantity of arms and ammunition was recovered after the clash. several local elements put the blame for the outbreak of violence on rss elements.  toic 5/3/81neighborhood: banaurian, takia gali, muradpur, subzabazar, kona sarai, puranj kacheri, alinagar, jhimnagar, takia gali
it is impossible to find separate figures for this and other villages. for combined totals for the district, please see the account of the bihar sharif riot, where the bulk of casualties were found. similarly, for officials involved, see account of bihar sharif riot.
it is impossible to find separate figures for this and other villages. for combined totals for the district, please see the account of the bihar sharif riot, where the bulk of casualties were found. similarly, for officials involved, see account of bihar sharif riot.
it is impossible to find separate figures for this and other villages. for combined totals for the district, please see the account of the bihar sharif riot, where the bulk of casualties were found. similarly, for officials involved, see account of bihar sharif riot.
it is impossible to find separate figures for this and other villages. for combined totals for the district, please see the account of the bihar sharif riot, where the bulk of casualties were found. similarly, for officials involved, see account of bihar sharif riot.
it is impossible to find separate figures for this and other villages. for combined totals for the district, please see the account of the bihar sharif riot, where the bulk of casualties were found. similarly, for officials involved, see account of bihar sharif riot.
the violence took place when  a 2000 strong procession of a minority community going to the house of the m.p. ramji mavani to protest against the removal of some bricks kept near their holy place by the municipality turned violent.  (toi, 06/14/81) the  minority  community is not identified.
 groups  not identified. however, fact that bjp and majli s members were arrested suggests that this was definitely a communal riot. toi 7/15/81:  these arrests included two legislators of the majlis ihehadul muslimeen (sultan salahuddin owaisi, president and baquer agha), and bjp city general secy. baddam bal reddy.  toi: 7/18/81:  amanullah khan, mla of majlis also arrested.  also, in toi 7/23/81, anjaiah argues that the violence was not a communal riot as it is traditionally understood, but a collection of incidents. while this disputes how the violence might be described, it supports the inference that, whether incidents or riot, this was communal in nature.neigborhoods: tappa chabutra, kusumpura, karwan, charminar, mir chowk, asif nagar, goshamahal, golkonda, lunger house, rein bazar, risala abdulla.figures: taken from toi 7/23/81, except for the figures for those arrested, which are 250 anti-social elements (toi, 07/15/81] + 12 detained under national security act (toi 7/23/81)
the clashing  groups  are not identified. a later report: toi 9/29/81, however classifies godhra as sindhi v. muslim riots. i therefore enter it as a definite case.
 groups  not identified. strongly probable, however, because the clash occurred over  the hoisting of the national flag on a disputed piece of land in mohalla kotla. (toi, 08/17/81)
 groups  not identified. neighborhood: ganj bazar, maliwadi, sarjepura, ghas galli, telikhunt, chitale road.cause:  the trouble started after some muslim yuths started three attempts to vreak a  dahi handi  (the prized earthen pot traditionally broken by youths after forming a human pyramid on gokulakshmi day.) some hindu youths did not like this and raised slogans as the fourth attempt was being made. ...muslim youths had also contributed to the funds for the celebration of the day.  (toi, 8/26/81)
see record on ahmadnagar riot. this riot is mentioned in passing in toi 8/27/81
neighborhood: ladwadacause and precipitating event:  the clash followed pouring of dirty water ona  ganpati visarajan procession from some buildings in the area.  (toi, 09/14/81)
very good analysis of the riot: toi 9/29/81. this article lists the following as the precipitating event for the second riot:  the situation seemed to be returning to normal when the deputy ministers of the state government who were camping in the city decided to tour the riot-affected area of baroda on september 15, two days after the trouble began. mr markand desai, the bjp mla who was also present at the circuit house, was also invited to join. the others in the group were mr. c. n. patel, deputy minister for labour, mr. mohammad baloach, deputy minister for law, dr. shirish purohit, mla and chief whip of the congress i) legislature party, mr. mohjammad patel, mla from broach, and mr, harivallab parikh, sarvodaya leader ... the visit was ill-advised and ill-timed....  the group was attacked by muslim youths and the second spate of violence was sparked off.neighburhood: tarsali, wadi nani sak market; branpura; navapura; raopura allegations of political enginnering; srp bias; and rss involvement.
communities  not identified. dispute over land.
this is not characterized as a  communal  or a group clash. however, the burning of a place of worship (toic 10/22/81) and the death of four cows (toic 10/24/81) leads me to categorize it as a definite case:  the violence erupted during a bandh on manday, after the death of four cows which were later fund to have eaten insecticide-sprayed grass.  (toi, 09/25/81)* not clear whether kopargaon is a village or town. it is not listed in the atlas, but is referred to in the newsreport as a town. i list it here as a village on the assumption that it would be in the atlas if it was a town.
this seems on the face of it, to be a hindu-police riot. it occurred after police and social workers failed to persuade the workers of the samwara durga puja samiti to relocate their durga idol. it is not clear, however whether the dissatisfied mob that attacked the police were dissatisfied durga puja workers or dissatisfied muslims.neighborhood: kotwali (peer gate, chowki chowk) toi 10/13/81
the clash took place  after a stone was thrown at a procession of one of the communities.  (toi 11/9/81)
 groups  not identified.neighborhood: pyodhonie (janjikar street)classified as strong rather than weak likelihood because the names of those injured (toi, 11/10/81) are all muslim and we have no reason to expect an intra-muslim riot in bombay.the no. of arrests 406 is a combined figure for those arrested in connection with this riot and the riot on nov. 9 in the dongri area.
two persons were killed and at least 12 others injured when the police opened fire to quell a section of tazia processionists indulging in biolence at bahdurganj in purnea district yesterday.  (toi 11/10/81) note that this is not just police-muslim but that the violence precedes police firing.
groups  not identified.  the police fired a few rounds to disperse clashing groups during a tazia procession.  (toi 11/10/81)
 groups  not identified.neighborhood: dongri, masjid bunderclassified as strong probable because the names of those injured are all muslim and we have no reason to expect an intra-muslim riot in bombay. the previous violence in the reported cause is also probably but not definitely communal, since the previous riot is probably but not definitely communal.the 406 count of arrests includes arrests made on the 8th in pyodhonie, bombay.
toi 1/4/82: officials form a 22-member peace committee to deal with the situation.
neighborhood: dariapur toi 1/11/82, kalupur toi 1/12/82cause and precipitating event:  the trouble began following a quarrel over kite flying in nagina police locality between two groups ...  (toi 1/11/82) based on this, i list cause as public rituals/festivities (makar sakranti) and precipitating event as a private quarrel.
toi 2/28/82: neighborhood: bhavani pethmeasures to reduce violence: peace committee formed. the riot followed a puja organized by the patel pavana sangham, which accused a political party (unidentified) of patronising  the anti-social elements..  (toi 1/28/82) (it is not clear however, whether hindus and muslims clashed here or whether it was simply a factional or other fight.)
hindu/muslim riotalthough this report (toi 2/14/82) does not explicitly identify this as communal, later material on the pune riots which took place at the same time does. that is why the clash is marked  definite . see toi 2/15/82 not attacked as well as other pune material for additional information.
linked to communal violence in solapur on feb. 15neighborhood: khadasvasla, farashkhana, samarath, nana bhavani, ganesh peth (toi 2/16/82)coding question: the reported cause was a vhp  hindu unity procession.  i have classified this as both political and religious. the trouble started yesterday when the tail end of a 50,000 strong  hindu rally march  organised by the vishwa hindu parishad was allegedly attacked with stones. the processionists, it is further alleged, changed the route on their own and resorted to stone throwing and burning of hotels in the decfan gymkhana area.  .... the hindu ekta andolan (hea) whose volunteers had joined the abhiyan yesterday expressed dissatisfaction over the manner in which the procession was conducted by the vishwa hindu parishad. their leader, mr. dhanjay jagtap, told a press conference here this morning that he would dissociate himself in future from any hindu unity programmes organised by the vhp or any other organization.   toi 2/16/82)measures taken by officials: 1) national security act (nsa) used. 2) bjp municipal councillor detained 3) shiv sena leader detained 4) ban on assemblies and processions. (toi 2/18/82)
cause and precipitating event: vhp jan jagran abhiyan. patit pawan sanghathan (pps) also implicated. (2/16/82)neighbourhood: tilak chowk (toi 2/16/82)
see xeroxes on pune and solapur. pandharpur is mentioned in those articles, but sufficient information is missing.
the violence developed out of clashes with the policeand members of 1) pakistan people s league 2) mahaz azade 3) jamaat-e-islam who were demanded a ban on sale of liquor and picketing liquor shops owned by kashmiri pandits and the government. trouble started when police asked shopkeepers to open their shops. (toi 3/11/82)
neighborhood: panigate (toi 3/20/82)

links: shooting at mosque in jerusalem.toi 4/14/82:  the mob was protesting against the sunday firing by an israeli at the al asqa mosque in jerusalem in which one person had been killed.  toi 4/17/82: jamat e islam and jamiat e tuluba involved. also indication that shops belonging to minority community had been looted.
toi 4/18/82:  at chitradurga, a procession of kannada agitators, who want th egokak committee report in this regard implemented, clashed with a minority linguisti group...there was a pitchfed battle between the rival sections. toi 4/18/82:  the pro-kannada agitation finds writers, artistes and others among the paraticipants. it becomes as a balkclash to the  save urdu  campaign launched by mr. f. m. khan, congress i mp and several muslim organizations. 
a huge procession to celebrate basava jayanti and shivaji jayanti was passing through siddheshwar road when a fight broke out among some miscreants and the processionits at the tail end.  (toi 4/27/82)
neighborhood: panigate toi 4/28/82
toi 4/28/82: the riot happened when gulal was found sprinkled over a  place of worship.  during a shivaji jayanti procfession.although it seems likely, we cannot say for certainty that this is a mosque.
toi: 5/14/82: neighborhood: machipet
toi 6/10/82: two clashing groups: muslims and harijans on one side and people of the thevar community on the other.
toi 6/14/82  phulwarisharif a well known muslim center of pilgrimage is a minority-dominated area with a sparkling of houses belonging to the majority community.  the riot had its origins in an incident on may 15, when a lamb owned by a muslim butcher wandered into theholding of a member of the majority community. a few days late,, a member of the majority community was stabbed and each community blamed the other. a peace committee was formed but did not defuse the situation. however, cm jagannath misra disputes this account. calling it a land dispute rather than a communal riot.   (toi6/13/82)
toi 6/5/82: the clash followed an alleged attack on a marriage procession as it was passing through a place of worship.
toi 6/15/82: clash is identified as communal, it involves 1) caste hindus 2) harijans and 3) muslims figures for those injured and arrested combined for district.
neighborhood: guruwar peth (toi 7/3/82)causes: the riot spread following a quarrel between children and subsequent intervention by a hindu ekta andolan worker. toi 7/4/82 (an earlier toi report7/3/82 said the riot broker out after two persons quarrelled at a pan shop)5 hindu ekta andolan workers were later taken into custody (toi 7/6/82)
bihar chief minister declares that the riot was not communal in nature. toi 7/5/82prominent villages disagree. i therefore list it as a probable (small likelihood). not clear whether caste or hindu-muslim.
neighborhood: turkman gate (toi 7/8/82)cause: toi 7/8/82  riot broke out after a number of persons went to the shop of chander bhan in the chandani mahal area after their evening prayers to  break their roza.  when the shopkeepers took long in serving them, they moved to the nearby shop owned by ashok. this led to a quarrel between at least two shop owners.....several miscreants spread a rumor that a communal clash had occurred...soon agitated members of both communities took to the narrow streets... 
neighborhood: toi 7/27/82: lahori gate, hauz khaz toi 8/1/82: chandni mahal, kamala market, jama masjidtoi 7/31/82: opposition members in parliament allege involvement by the ruling party naming congress workers kallu bhagat, kishen swaroop, as taking active part in the riots.
insufficiently reoprted. see xeroxes on delhi riots.
toi 8/4/82: neighborhood: yakutputra

public procession: ganapathi festival
toi 9/5/82: neighborhood, austin down. toi 9/6/82: viveknagartoi 5/9/82: c.m. ibrahim, congress i mla, resigns from the congress legislative party in protest.
tthree reported precipitating events: visit by imam bukhari, imam of jama masjid; desecration of mosque; stabbing of temple pujari (toi 9/14/82)neighborhood: delhi gate (toi 9/8/82), gujari bazar, brahmapuri, bhomiq-ka-pul, shahgasa (toi 9/9/82)toi 9/14/82: the longstanding cause of the dispute was a dispute over a place of worship under a pipal tree in shahgasar, where one temple already stood. one community there wanted to construct a temple there, and another a  mazar . there had been skirmishes before on august 12th, a janmashthami arti led to violence. the bjp leaders went to police station to demand the release of those men arrested by the police in connection with the incident. since aug. 12, an agreement was signed to respect the status quo. imam s visit on sept. 5 raised the tension, as did incidents of meat being found in mosques. violence erupted when the pujari of th temple was stabbed.(see article in toi 9/14/82 for good analysis of the riot)toi 9/27/82: cong. i and bjp involvement alleged.
neighborhood: azad nagar, gulzar ibrahim, islamabad, sohrab gate, sari bahleem, podiwala, prahlad nagar, guzri bazar, anantram-ka-chatta (toi 10/1/82)swami para, son ganj (toi 10/3/82), bhumi-ka-pul (toi 10/2/82)toi 10/1/82: entry of imam into meerut banned.toi 10/4/82: newsreport lists r.d. tripathi as the new superintendant of police (city) not clear whom he replaces. most likely pyarelal.not clear whether bsf, crpf, pac were all ordered in again, or whether they had been stationed in city since previous communal riot
neighborhood: fatehpura (toi 10/3/82)
neighborhood: navpura (toi 10/24/82)

cause and precipitating event:   police lobed 30 teargas shells to disperse rowds which indulged in arson, stoning, and looting immediately after the tazia procession ended here on thursday  (toi 10/29/82) see baroda xeroxes for additional information.
cause: toi 10/29/82:  different versions are being given for the violence, which apparently broke out when a tajia procession passing through patel phadia in the fatehpura area was stoned. the other version is that it was a reaction to the stabbing which occurred on saturday in which all the victims were from the same community. neighborhood: narapura, raopura, karelibaug. (toi 10/29/82)fatehpura, ladvada, mandvi (toi 10/29/82) sultanpura, yakubpura, (toi 10/30/82), wadi (11/1/82)


not clear whether this is a group clash or simply a police-muslim affair. the reports refer to riots and widespread violence, but mention only police-muslim encounters specifically. the police had lobbed trear gas shells and imposed ucurfew in the town following the viiolent turn of an agitation by a group of muslims protesting against certain  objectionable  references in an eighth standard history book.
toi 12/9/82: neighborhood: mandvi, panigate, babamanpura
transferred official: jaspal singh (police commissioner)the precipitating event was a demonstration organized by the majority community to protest the transfer of police commissioner jaspal singh (toi 12/16/82). this led to communal clashes.
the police opened fire after muslim processionists clashed with policemen at several places in alleppey town....a large crowd of the muslim community had colleced near the jama masjid this evening to celebrate the birth anniversary of prophet mohammed.  (toi 12/29/82)

this riot may have continued on to 1983.
there were stray incidents of stone-throwing and a tea shop was set on fire after an idol was disfigured in the shahganj locality. banning orders were enforced. shops were closed on the first day but reopened on the second. the rioting is not specified as communal, but given that it arose from the disfiguration of an idol and the name of the locality, we have reason to believe it is hindu-muslim. the article mentions, curiously enough, that the arrests were in connection with the attack on a cloth merchant a few days ago. this might have had some connection with the causes of the rioting.
the clash took place in ponjikkara, an island in the cochin backwaters, which we are told resulted in damage to a temple idol. the six injured have been admitted to hospital. no other information is available.
the article reports that the trouble started on january 27th when a young man called basavaraj who had hired a bicycle from a shop owner called khaleel, did not return the bicycle. basavaraj was traced and beaten by persons who were described as hindus. but the rumor spread instead that basavaraj had been killed by muslims. what started as a silent procession turned violent and 51 shops owned by muslims were looted.. the cong i mla, mr. srikantaiah said that he saw the hand of the janata party in the violence since they had just lost to the cong i and the muslims were traditional supporters of the congress i. all arrested were later released with the help of, mr. srikantaiah says, of the janata rival from the constituency.
the article only says that there was  considerable tension  in khan ward when a green flag on a tree near the mutton market at badam chowk was found replaced by a saffron flag by unidentified miscreants.prohibitory orders were clamped.no further information is available
the police opened fire to disperse a 1000 strong crowd of hindu munnani followers who attempted to take out a procession violating  prohibitory orders . they opened fire when lathi charge and firing in the air proved ineffective. the mob threw stones and damaged a kattobomman transport corporation bus. the collector said that two sps including the deputy commissioner,madras, dsp and 15 other policemen were injured in the stone-throwing. the dead was identified as kumar(20) and the injured were being treated at the govt headquarters hospital.
there were incidents of communal violence in paithan following the removing of a maruti idol and its replacement by chappals. no other information is available and the date of the riot is unclear.
this is a rather strange case and it is difficult to say whether there was a riot or not. three men, manzir mohammed, mohammed jilani and namdeo pandukar, set a 19 year old hindu youth, yeshwant balaram waleti, on fire and burnt him alive in a hindu cemetery at wadala. the police arrested two of the men but the third was absconding. the event is clearly communal but there is no mention of any reprisals from either community.
the trouble started late in the evening when the benariji rath mela processionists indulged in stone throwing following police refusal to change the approved route of procession. the police resorted to lathi charge and fired bullets into the air. there was also violence the next morning in the sabzi mandi area. the dm said that a number of arrests were made. after the violence on 31st morning, no other incidents were reported and the situation was said to be under control.
the violence in miraj is clearly specified as communal and was sparked off by a clash between the two communities at satar maker lane on march 31st at 11:00 am. in protest against the treatment meted out to a rickshaw driver by a policeman, there were many cases of arson through april 2 and autorickshaws were off the road on the 1st and 2nd. about 53 fruit and vegetable stalls were burnt down and a dairy near a place of worship was ransacked. prohibitory orders were enforced even as the violence spread to sangli on april 1st. despite the banning orders, mobs indulged in stone throwing and attacked policemen. mr. deshmukh announced that there would be a cid inquiry into the causes of the fire.
the violence at miraj spread to sangli on the 1st. prohibitory orders were clamped.
there was tension in erumadu following the insistence of members of one community that the gnana ratham, the mobile unit of vhp, should be allowed unrestricted movement. the sp said that the police prevented the ratham from going to a particular area anticipating a communal clash. following this, mobs blockaded traffic. the blockade was lifted once the police intervened.it isn t clear whether there were any specific incidents of rioting although 57 people were arrested.
the violence in malur broke out over the allegation of a rape attempt on the 13th. violent crowds indulged in looting and stone throwing. the reason for us to believe that the rioting was of a hindu-muslim nature is that the newspaper reports that on the 14th  there was tension even though a peace committee was meeting and namaaz went off smoothly  in which even mr. sait participated. there were violent demonstrations against the police urging the release of the 23 arrested the previous day.
the trouble began in mangalghat area of hyderabad when members of one community started throwing stones at a marriage procession in protest against the playing of music when the procession was passing in front of a place of worship. this led to a series of clashes, stabbing incidents and cases of arson. the chief minister went around the disturbed areas and supervised policing arrangements. he also announced an ex-gratia payment of rs.5000 to the next of kin of those killed in the clashes.
there were clashes between members of two communities following the bursting of crackers by a marriage party. in combing operations, the police recovered six grenades, eight knives and large quantities of explosive material. the officials mentioned above rushed to the town immediately.
the trouble took place because some people burst crackers near a  place of worship  at the victory of india in the prudential cup. there were some assaults 26th night followed by cases of arson next morning. that day, the police opened fire to control a mob that tried to beseige a police chowki. on the 28th, the police fired on riotous mobs in three different places curfew was imposed as people tried to set fire to some shops and a tractor. the director general of police, mr. kp madhekar, told reporters that among the policemen injured were 19 men of the srp. on the 29th, as mr. bk chougule, the home secretary of the maharashtra govt, there were six cases of arson and the police opened fire four times. the violence spread to neighboring dabhadi and zodge.an article tells us that malegaon is known for its huge muslim population. the figures given above are a total for all four days after which curfew was lifted and the situation returned to normal.
the violence in malegaon after the prudential cup victory spread here today and damages were caused to places of worship.
the violence in malegaon after the prudential cup victory spread here today and damages were caused to places of worship.
there was trouble in puntamba following alleged attempts to remove an idol on the banks of the godavari. a mob of 500 indulged in arson, setting a motorcycle and a liquor shop on fire, and also ransacked the guest house of a place of worship, the dsp, mr. dhananjay jadav said. normalcy was restored the following day.
all that the reports tell us is that there was a riot between two communities in lal kuan/hauz qazi. prohibitory orders were enforced under section144, the police fired two rounds into the air and lobbed teargas shells to disperse the rioters. there was a higher level meeting the following day, wherein mr. jagmohan instructed the police to take strict action against anyone spreading communal hatred in the walled city. patrolling was intensified even though the situation was officially described as  normal .
this long and serious period of rioting took place in the foreground of the simultaneous occurence of ganesh immersion and bakr id. on the 9th, the violence followed a bid by a local organization to observe a bandh against the alleged desecration of a place of worship in the city. police patrolling was intensified in view of these clashes and the 10 day ganesh festival beginning the next day.on the 16th night, there was a fatal stabbing incident in nagalchinta locality following which, on the 17th, there were four new stabbing incidents. the commissioner described the situation as under control while the cm announced ex-gratia payments of rs. 5000 each to the nearest in kin of those killed.on the 21st, there was a clash when a ganesh procession passed through dhabirpura locality in which one person was killed and 22 others injured.the 24th was an incident free day for the old city but there were three deaths in the outskirts of saroornagar. the police detained mr. a narendra bjp mla under nsa while three members of the mim were detained the previous night. the police also closed down the urdu daily, munsif the previous night for 15 days.on 25th, three more people were killed even as mr. n.t. rama rao was touring effected areas of the city.the 27th was the last day when any violence was reported and the curfew was finally lifted on october 1st.
a rioting mob threw stones at a ganesh procession in kadri town. police opened fire to quell the mob and two people died. the mob also set fire to a number of shops in the bazaar. the sp and the dc have formed a peace committee and the situation was reported to be well under control.
 ahmedabad, september 11 (pti): the curfew at viramgam town was relaxed for three hours this afternoon following improvement in the situation, police said. the town was brought under 24-hour curfew yesterday following friday s group violence. high police officials and srp jawans rushed to the town and brought the situation under control, the state control added. toi sept 12, 1983
violent communal clashes were triggered off in tanda when an alam procession was not allowed to pass through the prescribed route since durga puja celebrations were being held on the same road. curfew was imposed and the police and pac were heavily patrolling the township. mr. r.c takru, the home secretary confirmed the deaths very late. he also announced that there were no more untoward incidents since curfew was lifted on the evening of oct 19th.
the trouble started when a 2000 strong dasara procession passed by a  place of worship . stones were hurled on the procession members of which then attempted to set the place of worship  on fire. the police opened fire. the officials mentioned above left immediately for karmala.
nasik, october 19 (pti): prohibitory orders have been clamped in malegaon town till midnight of october 24th after some persons of a muharram procession indulged in stone throwing yesterday the police said today. tension prevailed in shastri chowk after some miscreants pelted stones at the residence of the president of patit pawan, mr. bhima gavli, the malegaon police said.the situation in the town was officially stated to be under control and peaceful this morning.
the communal clash we are told was a  sequel to a longstanding dispute over the leasing of temple lands. country made bombs, sickles and knives were freely used in the clash. sixty houses were set on fire and the injured were admitted to the tuticorin govt. hospital
locality: ujjain correspondent reported the story.police fire on single group, but insufficient evidence to state identity of group.]a crowd gheraoed a police station demanding the release of a person who had destroyed an idol in a temple two days previously. could be, therefore, a muslim crowd. or intra-hindu (i.e caste) ?police lathi charged crowd and prohibitory orders under section 144 cr. p.c were imposed for a week.
day long battle between mobs protesting the death in custody of a 38 year old man. the two politicians name above toured the troubled area and demanded a judicial inquiry into the disturbances. the fact that both are muslim suggests that muslims were involved, perhaps the ones protesting against the police.police fired on the crowd. 2 injured taken to hospital.altogether a report of 65 injured policemen, including the police commissioner halrankar.police explained that the man who had died had been on the  rowdy  list and had been arrested in a theft case. had died after complaining of chest pains. toi 3/12/84.after the incidents of the 11th more violence broke out when an english newspaper  the voice of karnataka  printed a statement allegedly by v.srinivasan (harijan leader, janata member and chairman of the state food and civil supplies corporation) which were anti-muslim. the newspaper was said to have been started recently. reportedly backed by politicians. srinivasan and another janata mla michael fernandes alleged that the paper had the backing of congress politicians who were trying to smear srinivasan and the janata to topple the janata government. the weekly apparently normally had a circulation of a few thousand but this particular edition had over 25,000 printed and freely distributed in muslim areas toi 3/14/84.casualty figures of 6 dead toi 3/13/84 and 10 dead toi 3/14/84. do not know if the latter number is inclusive of the previous one.police fired on crowds and curfew imposed. toi 3/14/84.
attack by 2 persons on an autorickshaw became communal.district sp went to karad to restore order. 1 arrest, 9 absconding toi 3/18/84.
report states that quarrel between children dragged in parents leading to a clash between rival groups of holi revellers ( so intra-hindu?). srp fired on the crowd and then attacked by the crowd toi 3/18/84.
report states that widespread violence occurred in a communally sensitive area, paharpur. the trouble began when two clashing groups set fire to a place of worship...so reported cause should be desecration of religious site/symbol but the report does not specify if the place was a mosque or temple...so can not be fitted into categories above.v.k. mehta and security guard amongst those killed. police fired to quell violence and curfew was imposed toi 3/19/84.
one group objected to another taking out a holi procession. led to a clash and then police fired tear gas and lathi charged and fired one round into the air.the number of injured given were police casualties toi 3/22/84.
tension had been building in bhiwandi ove the decision to allow a shiv jayanti procession after 14 years (communal violence in 1969). the garlanding of a portrait of bal thackeray (shiv sena) with chappals by a congress mla mr. khan had also caused much anger. thackerary, for his part, was accused of making derogatory statements about mohammed which he denied toi 5/19/84.the immediate spark was a clash over the hoisting of flags. a group (clearly muslim) supposedly pulled down a saffron flag to put up their green flags toi 5/19/84.police were given shoot to kill orders. police were slow to react. but officers were heard threatening to discipline policemen who did not shoot rioters on sight. the srp in particular were reported as lacking leadership and were, therefore, ineffective toi 5/19/84the army deployment only took effect on the second day.bhiwandi was visited by deshmukh (minister of state for home) and khatte (special igp law and order) on the first day toi 5/19/84.patil (chief minister) denounced thackeray for his alleged comments on mohammed toi 5/19/84. mrs. gandhi and rajiv visited bhiwandi on 5/21, toi 5/22/84.joshi (district commissioner of police) and pandey (assistant commissioner) were personally involved in police actions against rioters toi 5/20/84. curfew imposed and finally lifted on 5/30, toi 5/31/84.casualties: 1st report 17 killed toi 5/19/84 2nd report 44 killed toi 5/20/84 3rd report states that 81 bodies in bhiwandi and adjoining areas toi 5/21/84. final death toll for bhiwandi given as 109 toi 6/1/84 (the number increased as more and more bodies were discovered days later).minister of state for home, desmukh, reported that 126 were still missing from bhiwandi toi 7/11/84. total number of those arrested given as 1,193 toi 5/29/84.patil and union home minister sethi toured bhiwandi on 5/20, toi 5/21/84.reports of protests in kashmir specifically against the violence in bhiwandi (toi 5/30/84) suggests that the muslims were the main victims of the violence here.mohan singh, chief whip of the lok dal in up alleged that the violence in bhiwandi had changed from communal to inter-regional. the evidence was that many migrant workers from up had fled back to their home state toi 5/31/84.k.f. rustomji, former inspector-general of police said that if two battalions of reserve police had reached bhiwandi earlier the violence could have been checked. he also said that the violence in bhiwandi, bombay and thane was not only communal but was also was due to gangsterism toi 5/31/84.syed abdullah bukhari, shahi imam of jama masjid was refused permission by the maharashtra government to visit bhiwandi, thane and bombay toi 5/31/84.toi reported in a study of the riots that one of the reasons for the ineffectiveness of the police was that the growth of the police had not kept up with the increase in the size of the towns. development plans did not plan in the expenditure needed to expand the police force as towns grew. bhiwandi was given as an example of a town that had grown considerably but had an inadequate police force for the town. toi 7/19/84.
trouble started on the 3rd day of a bandh called by shiv sena to protest at the alleged insult to thackeray by congress mla a.r. khan (chappal garland of portrait) 5/19/84. khan subsequently denied the allegation toi 5/24/84.chief minister patil toured affected areas on 5/19 (toi 5/20/84).many political leaders for the deployment of the army (toi 5/21/84). by thed 21st more troops were deployed (toi 5/22).dr. rafiq zakaria pleaded with mrs. gandhi for more troops to be sent (toi 5/22)congress politicians call on the chief minister to ask the army to take control throughout the city on the grounds that the police were inadequate.allegations that outsdiers were trucked in to create trouble toi 5/22/84evidence of large scale planning, hitherto not known to cid unearthed (incendiary materials). ribeiro said  we have to counter terror with terro. we cannot let this go on much on longer  toi 5/23/84.ribeiro banned the carrying of weapons and the performing of provocative actions for a month. after the killing of a head constable shoot to kill orders were given (toi 5/23/84).the violence diminished on 24 and 25th but there were communal incidents. accusations that police firing on cheeta camp was unprovoked and not due to an attack on the police as the police claimed toi 5/26/84. the army complained that on one occasion the police had helped a mob to escape from them toi 5/27/84.police stated that an unidentified person had distributed 150 revolvers during the riots toi 5/29/84.the state government filed charges against thackeray for inflammatory remarks made about islam and the maharashtra prades congress committee filed a show-cause notice against mla khan for his alleged involvement in the anti-thackeray demonstration toi 5/29/84.dr. mrs lalita, maharashtra public health minister, alleged that ribeiro had ignored her complaints that the trombay police station inspector was in league with anti-social elements. ignoring her complaints led to riots in her area she claimed. she had been gheraoed by minority members of the brcc and accused of complicity in the alleged police atrocities on the residents of cheeta camp toi 6/2/84.final casualties for bombay listed as 87dead (toi 6/1/84) and 3,270 arrested (toi 5/29/84).total casualties for maharashtra as given by toi, official figures given in bracket. bhiwandi 109 (109), bombay 87 (87) toi 6/1/84, thane 59 (42), kalyan 10 (10), thane rural 8  (8) toi 5/28/84.  final figures for the state given by home minister desmukh 278 dead, 1.115 injured and  11,453 arrested toi 7/11/84.chief minister patil refused to hold a judicial inquiry into the statewide violence as this would only create further tension. financial help of rs. 3,000 for families of killed, rs. 2,000 for the seriously injured and rs. 1,000 for those with minor injuries toi 6/7/84.toi in a study on the riots argued that one of the reasons for the ineffectiveness of the police was the weakness of its intelligence. particularly the police were weak in knowledge of urdu. this meant that they took a long time to realise that inflammatory articles had been written in urdu newspapers and therefore could be taken by surprise when violence broke out.ribeiro was unaware of the parbhani incident (garland of chapalls for thackeray portrait) of 5/11 unti shiv sena put up placards on 5/15. thane police commissioner, ramachandran, was unaware of agitation amonst muslims caused by contents of akhbar-e-alam until 5/17 though it had been published on 5/13. toi also criticised the plices delay in charging thackeray for his 4/21 speech until 5/28. toi 9/18/84.toi also suggested that a significant feature of these riots was the relatively low level of looting and mass violence. but particulary significant was the firing on policemen in daylight at musafirkhana on 5/19. toi 7/20/84.a.a. halbe, special juge, was appointed by the state government to carry out the trials of those charged in relation to the violence in bombay, thane and bhiwandi. he started trying cases on 11/17/84. nearly 1,300 cases registered and 3,86o were arrested on charges related to murder, dacoity, arson, looting and stabbing. toi 12/18/84.d.m arekar special public prosecutor will conduct the proceedings for the state. toi 12/18/84.
violence spread here from nearby bhiwandi. security forces claimed that as bhiwandi was brought under control trouble makers from there went to thane toi 5/24/84.casualties 59 killed is toi figure and 42 is official figures toi 5/27/84.the violence in thane was not explicitly called communal but given that nearby bhiwandi s was it is certain that thane s was communal too.in a study on the riots toi reports that thane suffered very badly as it had been overlooked by the security officials who had concentrated on bombay and bhiwandi. in fact police had been sent from thane to bhiwandi and the thane police commissioner, d.ramachandran, was even camping in bhiwandi at one point, leaving thane in the chard of a pune dig who did not know the city well. this had left thane with inadequate police forces. toi 7/20/84.
only detailed report of violence in kalyan was toi 5/21/84, but violence could have been over a longer period given the statewide context. violence in kalyan was not explicityly labelled communal but given the context is most probable.casualties 10 killed, toi and official figures match toi 5/27/84.
clashes between political parties on election day is reported cause. but no information as to whether election is lok sabha or state. was in asifnagar constituency. clash between telugu desam and majlis ittehadul muslimeen workers and discovery of a body cause of violence toi 5/21/84violence of 5/21 reported as communal in toi 5/27/84 am presuming that this is linked to toi 5/21 report of political clash on 5/20 as it is in the same constituency and is on subsequent days.casualties: 4 dead, 40 injured, 250 arrested. curfew had been imposed. toi 5/27/84.
4 hacked to death. a band after 200 people allegedly arrived by train to create trouble.a bombay dig was sent there and the srp was posted toi 5/23/84.violence not called communal but in the context most likely.
reported cause of previous violence communal refers to the fact that people were protesting communal violence in maharashtra or should previous violence only refer to the local area. this also overlaps with reference to outside event.violence resulting from protests against the communal violence in maharashtra toi 5/30/84the house of a judge who passed the death sentence on a kashmir liberation front leader was attacked toi 5/30/84. an attempt was also made to burn a place of worship toi 5/30/84.casualties: 2 dead and at least 244 injured. the injured are policement and report does not specify if the number is for srinagar alone or for the whole valley. arrested 89. total number of arrested in the valley was 267. among those arreseted were members of the jamiat-e-tulaba, the jamiaat-i-islami and the people s league ( described as a secessionist organisation) toi 5/31/84.mrs. khalida shah, sister of farooq and part of dissident faction of national conference, alleged that the state government was using the violence as a pretext to arrest workers of the dissident faction toi 6/3/84. bear in mind that the naional conference was to split soon, a split engineered by congress.
report of police firing tear gas and lathi charge to disperse a stone throwing mob. context of protests against communal violence in maharashtra. also part of several incidents of violence in kashmir i 5/30/84.
check if this incident is related to violence in baramullah in the previous record. toi 5/31 spoke of violence in baramullah, toi 6/1 reported violence in sopore in baramullah district. are these the same localities with greater detail as to the locality in the second report or are they two different places and incidents?police lathi charge, fire tear gas and fire in the air.report of houses of a particular community being attacked and that town was a strong hold of jamait-i-islamis toi 6/1. strong probability, therefore, that violence was communal, part of widespread violence resulting from protests against maharashtra communal violence.
a place of worship had been constructed on a piece of government land. the district administration got a court order for demolition while the construction was under way. the demolition party and police were attacked by the police who fired on the crowd. eastern frontier rifles and bsf sent to the area.chaudhury, land reform minister, directed bari, minister of state, to visit the area. mr. bari was from murshidabad toi 6/3/84. bari s name (abdul) suggest he is muslim, suggests that the conflict may have had communal dimensions i.e. attempted demolition of an illegal mosque?
the violence from 6/21 to 6/25 was located in kherwadi in bandra area toi 6/26/84.new violence broke out after arrest of shiv sena leader manohar sarpotdar under the national security act for making an inflammatory speech at the peace committee meeting in kherwadi. army was redeployed in shiv sena strongholds.casualties 8 killed, 49 injured, 821 arrested including 40 shiv sena shakha pramukhs toi 6/27/84.number of arrested updated to 1,129 toi 6/28/84.ribeiro reported that army would continue to be present in sensitive parts of the city. a comprehensive list of slum lords who terrorised tenants in troubled areas, he said toi 6/30/84chief minister, patil, said that ribeiro was not being transferred to become head of the anti-hijacking unit as proposed. he asked the union home minister, p.c.sethi to allow ribeiro to continue in his present post and he had agreed. toi 7/14/84.haji mastan, the reformed smuggler, karim lala , the alleged kingpin of the bombay underworld and 13 others were arrested under the national security act (nsa). it was alleged that the social organisation, all-india people s secretariat, founded by mastan was involved in financing and supplying weapons. the arrests were a sequel to the arrest of several shiv sena men and other muscle men of both communities. a congressman said that the arrest of mastan was the harassment of a freedom fighter toi 7/5/84.there was a bandh against the arrest of mastan and others under the nsa toi 7/7/84.karim lala s men resorted to violence to protest his arrest toi 7/8/84.haji mastan and others detained under the nsa released. reasons for release were confidential and could not be released, said desmukh, minister of state for home toi 7/31/84. central government denied any role in the release of haji mastan, karim lala and 39 others denied under nsa toi 8/1/84. cpi crticised release as motivated by concern for vote banks toi 8/1/84 39 maharashtra mp s stated that the release of mastan and others damaged the party (congress) image toi 8/3/84. chief minister,patil, said that mastan and others were released as peace was returning. he said that given that the muslims were to celebrate id, and the shiv sainiks had been released the others should be released also toi 8/4/84deshmukh, the minister of state for home, announced that special courts would be set up in thane, bhiwandi, and bombay to try cases related to communal violence toi 7/10/84.the police had called for such special courts toi 6/5/84.because of widespread communal in states like gujarat, maharashtra and andhra pradesh, union home minister, narasimha rao stated that the government was considering banning religious processions toi 10/21/84.additional igp of maharashtra, r.rengaraju said the number of police would be increased by 2,000 to nearly 100,000 by the end of the year. additional manpower would be distributed to sensitive areas, especially, thane, kalyan and malegaon. toi 10/26/84.
stone throwing and stabbing occurred as the  bonalu  procession celebrating the mahankali festival passed near the charminar toi 7/25/84.the procession is also referred to as the mahankali jatra toi 7/27/84.police had to fire 4 rounds and lathi charge.casualties: 50 injured and 200 arrested toi 7/25/84, 2 dead toi 7/27/84.almost certain to be communal, affected areas afzal gunj, begum bazar and shah inayat gunj (toi 7/27/84) all sound muslim.
locale is described as hungud town in illakal taluka of bijapur district.hungud town had been agitating for a bus depot. trouble started when a group for an mla and a group against him clashed, subsequently police and revenue officials were attacked. police fired killing 3 injuring 4. hegde ordered a judicial inquiry, and sent chandrappa to study the situation. the divisional commander, the deputy igp and the sp rushed to the town toi 7/28/84.very unlikely to be communal.
reports speak of violence from 7/22 (toi 7/30/84 and 7/31/84). i have split it into 3 events according to the gaps in daily coverage i.e. on some days in between there was no coverage on hyderabad. but if the reports mentioned above speak of it as continuous violence maybe this and the last two records on hyderabad i.e. from 7/22 on should be merged as one. casualties were given as for violence from 22-30.4 city mlas: 3 of the majlis ittchudul muslimeen and 1 of the bjp were arrested under the nsa. toi 7/30/84police and crpf deployedchief minister rama rao was away in the us for treatment. union minister for home, venkatasubbiah visited the city on 7/30. the governor, ram lal, asked telugu desam finance minister n. bhaskar rao to report to him on the situation toi 7/31/84.no cause given for these days of violence but the trouble on 7/22 began around the mahankali festival procession.casualties: 12 dead (for violence from 7/22) and 700 arrested toi 7/31/84. injured 30 (appears to be for a day or couple of days violence only) toi 7/30/84.
rajouri described as a border town. report speaks of clashes between two groups of people.curfew imposed toi 8/25/84.could be communal or political?
violence broke out after slogans shouted by members of two processions associated with ganesh chaturthi and punkah festivities. anti-social  elements attacked  munshi  an urdu daily.raman, chief secretary, met with majlis ittchadul muslimeen members and bjp (including a. narendra who had been arrested by the previous state government in relation to communal violence) members separately.casualties: 18 injured are police, several others were listed as injured in the clashes toi 9/5/84.these were the first clashes under the new state government after the disposal of the rama rao government. though there had been serious political violence in the state after rama rao s dismissal.it appears that the new government has a new chief secretary and a new police commissioner.
violence broke out when a ganesh procession was heading towards hussain sagar (the clashes not explicitly called communal but are almost certain given the fact of a ganesh procession heading towards a muslim area-hussain sagar- sparking the violence).  the incidents were also two days before the new state government faced a vote of confidence in the assembly. opposition politicians accused the chief minister of engineering the violence as he had failed to ge the necessary mla support (implying he wanted to postpone the vote, but he denied that the vote would be delayed)toi 9/10/84army was also deployed and police given shoot at sight orders toi 9/10/84casualties: 7 killed, 100 injured, 300 arrested (including narendra, bjp) toi 9/10/84. 14 killed (total) and 150 more arrested toi 9/12/84 20 killed (total) toi 9/13/84 21 dead (total) and arrest upto 850(total), toi 9/14/84 22 dead (total) toi 9/19/84 24 dead toi 9/20/84 25 dead toi 9/22/84 27 dead toi 9/23/84 28 dead toi 9/24/84 31 dead toi 9/26/84. 29 died, 200+ injured toi 9/27/84union home secretary wali went to hyderabad to inspect the situation, toi 9/11/84andhra cabinet decided to undertake legislation banning processions when there is concern about law and order toi 9/11/84wali reported to union home minister narasimha rao that the andhra government of bhaskar rao had failed to control the riots and could have done so. report says that after wali s visit to the city 150 trouble makers were arrested toi 9/12/84bjp leader vajpayee rushed to hyderabad in response to a request by rama rao toi 9/14/84. i have broken up the hyderabad riots into 4 events based on newspaper accounts. the papers report a definite break in violence between 14-17. between 9/18 and 9/25 there is no accounts for what happened on 9/20 or 9/24 so i have split that phase into 3 events. however, as all of that week was marked by stabbing incidents it is possible that there were stabbings on the 20th and 24th as well, making it one event from 18-25. also see reports 215-217.in september rama rao returned to power.arrests: 2 muslim majlis leaders, sultan salauddin owaisi (pro-tem speaker of the previous government) and p. rama swamy a minister in the bhaskar rao government were arrested in relation to the violence under the nsa, along with 20 others. the arrested include 2 militant majlis leaders bakhar aga and amanullah khan who had (incidentally) also taken part in disrupting recent assembly proceedings. during the previous regime the police had taken 35 into custody but had to release 30 of them due to pressure from various political parties and then released the other 5 out of disgust.the rama rao after returning to power released 2 bjp mlas: a. narendra and indra reddy who had been arrested by the bhaskar rao government. oswaisi, narendra, amanullah khan and bhaskara aga are reported as often being in custody. oswaisi and associates had been in custody when rama rao had been in power and is now back in custody.justice m. krishna ral, retired judge of the andhra pradesh high court has been appointed as the one man commission to inquire into the 9/9 incidents. appointed by rama rao, chief minister. toi 10/13/84.rama rao announced that two special cells were created to interrogate those arrested. toi 10/27/84.
check locale. is reported as jalgaon....this could be in bombay.stabbing incident in ganesh procession. could be communal, but police account it to old enmity toi 9/10/84.1 injured in police fired 1 round to disperse crowd. police also lathi charged and burst tear gas. police also speaks of collector and sp being hit by stones, therefore, injuries must be higher than the 1 hurt in police firing. toi 9/10/84.
explosion in ganapathi festival triggered violence. complaints that missiles were thrown at procession. police fired, lathi charged and teargassed.a magisterial inquiry was ordered into the violence. toi 9/11/84as it was a ganapathi procession, strong likelihood that it was a communal incident.
a continuation of previous violence which broke out on 9/9/84. casualty figures are unclear reproted deaths for violence uptil 9/13 was 21 dead toi 9/14, but reports of toi 9/19 and 9/20 speak of one killing on each day but toi 9/20 states that total dead since 9/9 was 24. either 3 people were killed after 9/18 or one who was injured in earlier violence died during these days. see report 152 for detailed account of hyderabad riots
continuation of violence which began on 9/9/84. reports are all of stabbing incidents on each day, but the general reports are of violence abating.casualties: toi 9/22/84 speaks of stabbing incedents. 9/23/84 1 killed and some stabbed in funeral for riot victim 9//24/84 1 killed, 5 injured in stabbing incidents see report 152 for full details of hyderabad riots
clashes between two communities broke out after an altercation after a political meeting attended by some telugu desam leaders.2 died in police firing and 1 in group clash. toi 9/25/84background of communal violence in hyderabad and recent reinstatement of rama rao government.
report of toi 9/26/84 speaks of stabbing incidents, and 2 injured. is tail end of communal riots whit began on 9/9/84.i have broken up the violence between 9/18-25 into three events, because there was no coverage for what happened on 9/20 or 9/24. on all of the days, the trouble consiststed of a few stabbing incidents. it is possible that there were such incidents on the 20th and 24h as well which would make this one event from 9/18 to 9/25.see report 152 for full coverage of hyderabad riots
stone throwing mob disrupted  ashura  procession. violence was also political as offices of youth federation (allied to shah, chief minister) were attacked. police fired, tear gassed and lathi charged toi 10/5/84.state authorities refused to permit a mohurram procession for 10/6, toi 10/6/84.casualties: 1 dead, 100 injured toi 10/5/84 100 arrested toi 10/6/84.toi reported that kashmir has not had peace since the ouster of farooq abdullah by g.m. shah due to the fact that he was unable to secure a sense of legitimacy for his government toi 10/6/84.
trouble began when stone throwing broke out between members of two communities while the procession of the image of durga for immersion was going on.police attacked the next day while taking the arrested to court, police fired back killing 1.casualties: 2 killed, scores injured, arrested not specified toi 10/8/84.
a group clash occurred when brickbats were thrown at a kali procession. reported as dispute over route.casualties: 4 policemen injured toi 10/6/84, guessing that total would be higher.district magistrate usmani and the sp rushed to the spot.a report of toi 10/9/84 states that the trouble was related to dussehera celebrations and that it was communal.pahasu is a small town in bulandshahr district
violence broke out after a man of unsound mind  eased himself  in a place of worship on 10/5. a subsequent report toi 10/15/84 confirmed that the place of worship was a temple.police had to lathi charge, tear gas and fire in the air. the district sp, bharani, said the trouble started when the moharram procession was disrupted on 10/6.casualties: 50 arrested and 4 policement injured toi 10/7/84.the karnataka chief minister hegde accused congress of inciting the violence in order to discredit the janata government. toi 10/15/84.
a group from hyderabad came to attapur for a religious function. when they left there was a rumour that they had stoned the house of another group. the other group then retaliated.casualties: 8 injured, 100 arrested toi 10/7/84.
unsure as to which state ujjain is in.report states that there was a clash between two communities. no cause given but clashes occurring in other towns at this time were related to dussehera/ durga immersions. see toi 10/7/84.report of toi 10/10/84 confirms that the clash occurred while the two communities were taking out their religious processions.casualties: 3 killed, 8 injured, 25 arrested toi 10/7/84.
locale, utraula near gonda in up.duration unsure, as report speaks of tension for the 3rd consecutive day but gives no details.arrested totalled 90+. dussehera unable to be celebrated, nor the immersion of durga images or the  tazia  procession, all due to the tension. toi 10/7/84.
trouble broke out when pieces of flesh were thrown at a  bharat milap  procession.casualties: 7 policemen injured toi 10/8/84.toi 10/9/84 states that the violence broke out around dussehera celebrations and that it was communal.sub-divisional magistrate was killed, a child killed, 3 others injured toi 10/9/84.crp sent to town on 10/10. number of arrested given as 96. arrested total given as 206 toi 10/13/84unsure as to duration. report of 10/13/84 states that there were no untoward incidents since the 8th. but have no details, and untoward incident could be anything from a riot to a stabbing incident.
police fired a few rounds to dispers unruly tazia processionists. toi 10/8/84.
locale: naglamal and maukhas villages in kithore area, report was filed from meerut.dispute over burial grounds. when minority community tried to bury a dead person the majority community objected that it was in an  unconventional  place toi 109/84. as it muslims who bury the dead, i presume that the minority community is most likely muslim and the majority is hindu.casualties: 20 toi 10/9/84.district authorities refused to allow the burial in  unconventional  site and insisted that it be done in traditional site and it was. toi 10/10/84.tension continued in maukhas village when another burial had to be performed. toi 10/13/84.
reported cause is given as previous violence (other) because though it was a strong possibility that the previous violence was communal it was only classified as a strong-possibility. police search operations led to a clash with rioters. the two killed were claimed to be the one s responsible for the killing of the sub-divisional magistrate on 10/6.casualties: 2killed, 3 injured and 288 arrests (for previous violence as well) toi 10/16/84.casualties: total: 4 killed, 3 missing and 375 arrested. these are for both incidents of violence. toi 10/16/84.chief minister tiwari along with union minister of state mrs. mohsina kidwai, mr. ziaur rehman ansari and the u.p minister mohd. amin ansari visited the town. tiwari ruled out the possibility of a special inquiry. toi 10/16/84.
locale unsure, report states in krishnagiri village, near kurnool.a group going to court attacked by another group of 20 toi 10/29/84. most probably a local caste of factional clash?
report of group clashes. 5 injured. army called out to help. curfew imposed toi 12/8/84.have put it as a strong possibility because it is in kashmir.
report of groups clashes. 1 died. bsf patrolling. army put on standby. curfew imposed. rajouri described as a border town. toi 12/14/84. there had been violence here before.
police report 2 killings and several riots in the preceding in the kulaba constituency of raigad district. report was filed from alibag. parts of the district has a strong undercurrent of communalism. general elections were approaching on 12/27. police feared that the violence might increase as the elections neared.toi reports that the persons and political parties in stirring up trouble were: d.b.patil-pwp, a.r. antulay-imc, vilas tupe-hindu ekta samiti. the congress was not involved. this is the area where there was tension over the issue of a muslim burial ground. (the area of this burial ground is called murud, and the details sound very similar to the case recorded in an earlier record on possible communal violence above). vhp and hes wanted the ground put aside for recreational purposes and the muslims opposed that. slogans were written on a place of worship. there were attacks on rival party members. police arrested tupe and 168 hes members in connection to the murder of an antulay supporter. patil was alleged to have attacked antulay supporters as well. the samiti was headed by the daughter of the pwp leader. no specific group clashes are recorded in this report. but it is a good case of the complex mix of religous tensions and local politics.
kite flying on  makar sankaranti  groups attacked each other. police burst tear gas, then fired. toi, 1/15/85. mayor and police commissioner attend public meeting called by the city ekta samiti. toi 1/17/85.
colored water thrown near a place of worship toi 3/8/85.
anti-reservation protest now turned communal toi 3/19/85. army given shoot on sight orders, indefinite curfew toi 3/19/85.s.b. chavan visited while riots were still on. rajiv gandhi visited day after riots stopped toi 3/24/85.
this is based on toi 4/3/85 report, information scarce. could not find any earlier reports.
toi 4/3/85 reports that conflict started when police arrested member of rajput lodhi community. they retaliated, at the same time a  mad man  threw stones at a  baraat  party (marriage procession). sparked communal riot. lodhis live in muslim area.
water and acid thrown on women from a place of worship toi 3/25/85.not sure if panvel is a village, town or district. also check state.
could be related to communal violence in the city in the prededing week. see toi 4/3/85.
chaudhary called for more crp units. curfew toi 4/17/85.ahmadabad courts prohibited five police officers from entering troubled areas. these include: mr. vashit the commandant of the srp and mr. r.j. bhatt (sp). vashit was accused of entering houses and abusing the inhabitants. toi 4/20/85. death toll reported as 35, this is for the month long anit-reservation and communal violence. toi 4/23/85.
40 people listed as missing. report states was the worst area for communal violence. i m not sure about the locality toi 4/26/85.
not specifically called communal. but violence occured in parts of the city where communal violence often occurs, especially dariapur and kalupur.the governor b.k. nehru recalled from geneva by the center toi 4/25/85. killed/injured: lower numbers are official figures, higher numbers are given by prominent citizens including municipal corporataors of wards toi 4/25/85.
police fired. srp deployed toi 4/28/85.elected congress candidate niyaz ahmed and candidate of dalit muslim suraksha mahasangh (dmsm) arrested.
7 killed, 25+ injured toi 5/ 9/85.9 injured. a.k. bhargav, additional comissioner of police leads police search party. 26 arrested. court case alleging police excesses toi 5/10/85.25+ injured. official death toll for riots up until now 87, unofficial 100+ toi 5/12/85.13 killed, scores injured. 35 arrested. malabar special police from kerala deployed for first time. lt.-gen. ranjit singh dayal, goc-in - c, southern command arrived in the city, consulted with chief minister solanki and governor b.k. nehru toi 5/13/85.2 injured in police firing toi 5/14/85.3 killed, 8 injured, 17 arrested toi 5/14/85.3 died of earlier injuries, 6 injured toi 5/15/85.1 killed, 1 injured toi 5/16/85.anti-reservation protest by students, doctors and state employees, but toi reported the clashes as communal.
report of intercommunal violence toi 5/14/85.
violence occured in wadi area: swaminarayan lane and mughal restaraunt lane toi 5/19/85.
police fired on clashing groups toi 5/18/85.multi-party lok sabha delegatiion visited the city toi 5/20/85.
police fire on clashing groups. toi 5/21/85
report describes group clashes all over gujarat and arrests in ahmadabad. context of bandh called by trade and business community to protest government failure to maintain law and order toi 6/7/85.
strong possibility of communal violence as trouble centered in communally sensitive dariapur and kalupur areas toi 6/8/85.
2 killed, 11 injured , curfew .toi 6/9/85. 14 killed, toi 6/10/85.1 killed, 3 injured (uni report 1 killed, 1 injured) 37 arrested toi 6/11/85.amarsinh chaudhary announces action against those calling for bandhs toi 6/9/85.government orders judicial inquiry into all aspects of violence. cabinet accepts postponement of implementing 18% hike in reservations for obc s toi 6/10/85. akhil gujarat vali mahamandal and navrachana samiti (anti-reservation student and parent bodies) reject solanki s previous day consessions. police comissioner bans pillion riding on two-wheelers. toi 6/10/85.3 member editor s guild team visited ahmadabad (kuldip nayar, s.sahay, harindra dave). blame congress and opposition parties for provoking violence. hold police accountable for attack on gujarat samachar (gujarati newspaper) toi 6/9/ 85. violence occurred in communally sensitive dariapur and kalupur areas.
police fire on mobs, curfew imposed toi 6/15/85.
rath yatra procession taken out against government s wishes triggering conflict.solanki went to delhi and met union home minister s.b. chavan. solanki facing unrest within the party toi 6/21/85.police announce rs. 1500 reward for information on provocative publications. ban also on sale of firecrackers toi 6/17/85.
toi 6/23/85 suggests that demonstration by women in defiance of curfew (reported toi 6/22/85) may have encouraged anti-social elements to resume violence.women were muslim. protested at passing of rath yatra through sensitive areas. demanded lifting of curfew and withdrawal from the city. toi 6/22/85.minority (muslim) mlas left for delhi to present memorandum to prime minister.in violence in city explosive devices used. toi 6/23/85.
quarrel over eve teasing reported as turning communal. police fired 2 rounds. toi 6/29/85more group clashes and police firing. curfew imposed. toi 6/30/85
police fire on groups and lathi charge.involvement of two ministers suggest seriousness of clash and that one of them was muslim suggest that it may have been communal. toi 7/4/85.
mob went on the rampage in retaliation for burning of houses the previous night.solanki resigne replaced as chief minister by amarsinh chaudhary
report speaks of group clashes. toi 7/8/85am not sure of locality, is it town or village, report said it was in northern gujarat.
curfew imposed. toi 7/8/85.no cause reported but there had been violence here earlier toi 6/18/85the centre appointed j.s. ribeiro, director-general of the crpf, as the new director-general of police in gujarat. the previous director-general v.t. shah had  proceeded  on leave toi 7/8/85.
police fire teargas to disperse mobs toi 7/11/85.toi report 7/20/85 by ashraf states that there was communal violence in surat but does not specify incidents. also says the same for baroda.
group clashes occur inspite of curfew. police fire on crowds. police recover bombs. chief minister chaudhary announces an ad hoc ex-gratia payment to police personnel for services rendered. bear in mind the police had been severely criticised. toi 7/12/85
violence broke out in communally sensitive dariapur and kalupur within two days of the army being withdrawn from ahmadabad and baroda. s.n. sinha reported on discovery of arms cache. indefinite curfew imposed. akhil gujrat navrachna samiti and gujarat vali mandal call for bandh toi 7/18/85.casualties listed as 7 dead, 34 injured toi 7/18/95 and then 8 dead, 35 injured 7/19/85. 4 more killed and 15 injured toi 7/20/85. 8 killed, 22 injured, bringing total dead to 22 toi 7/21/85.10 killed, scores injured bringing toll to 32 killed, 125+ injured. total in state 228. toi 7/22/85.. 8 killed, several injured, 24 arrested toi 7/24/85. 1 killed, 5 injured bringing total to 40 dead and statewide 250+ dead toi 7/25/85. ribeiro gave the police orders to shoot on mobs.long talks between government and anti-reservationists.srtiking panchayat and government workers stage rally. went off peacefully. toi 7/19/85split in anti-reservationist groups as some leaders accept government deal. toi 7/20/85.ribeiro sets up special police squads to combat violence toi 7/21/85.a.n. sinha, additional comissioner of police reports discovery of arms cache in dariapur and arrest of gang involved. weapons smuggled in from himmatnagar toi 7/26/85.several gang members confess to involvement in bomb blasts in city toi 7/30/85.chaudhary alleges communal violence used to secure cheap property toi 7/25/85.two congress corporators of kalupur arrested under nsa toi 7/25/85.
police lathi charge, fire tear gas and fire into air. curfew imposed. level of casualties and arrests and seniority of police present suggest seriousness of incident. police reinforcements sent in from meerut and ghaziabad.
army called out for first time (?) in the city toi 6/30/85.colour balloon festival...have no idea what this is.toi 7/6/85 would report 11 killed in a week of violence. but many of the killings were in scattered incidents so i have only marked it as a riot for the days given above.toi report of 7/20/85 by ashraf sayed states that there was communal violence in baroda, but does not specify dates.
stones thrown at ganesha procession. police fired tear gas to disperse stone throwing mob toi 8/24/85.
trouble during ganesh festival. no further details. toi 8/29/85.2 killed, 10 injured toi8/30/85
trouble at ganesh festival. police fired 2 rounds to disperse mobs. toi 8/29/85.
trouble broke out after ganpati processions. objections made by rival groups on passing of processions, playing of music and dancing, and throwing gulal at  sensitive  spots.localities given as jalgaon and kohlapur. but details only for jalgaon. i have marked down the district as kohlapur because the kohlapur district sp was in charge.police and srp reinforcements sent to the area. police lathi charged and fired tear gas toi 8/29/85dispute over route of ganpati idols given as probable cause of conflict. traditional route passed through  sensitive  areas. in spite of requests for route to be changed organisers stuck to old route.srp accused of excesses. minister of state for home, j.t. mahahan said a decision about holding an inquiry would be made after he received a full report on the troubles.police report 70 arrested so far. curfew had been imposed toi 8/30/85.
groups of processionists clash. police fired 3 rounds into the air to disperse the crowds toi 8/29/85
incident occurred in shabazpur in sambhalshabazpur is described as a locality, don t know if this is a town or a village. also mentioned specific local as sambhal tehsil.2 dozen armed men attacked a place of worship. fits desecration of place of worship, but type not specified so could not put into box.police and provincial armed constabulary posted in the area. toi 8/30/85.
stones thrown at ganesh procession. processionsists turned violent. police fired teargas to disperse a mob of 3,000.ranebennur described as near 90 km from hubli toi 10/27/85. had been similar violence here earlier. see earlier report.
locality described as kalgundi in chiplun taluka.clash occurred between 2 communities after celebrating religious functions. this could imply that they are from the same religious community? police arrested some from both groups toi 11/30/85
locality is puthiakavu in karunagapally near quilon.clash was sequel to dispute over use of land in front of place of worship.17 injured.police pickets posted and prohibitory orders issues toi 12/5/85.
dispute started when  unrecognise  truckers union camped in front of place of worship while prayer meeting was in progress. in retaliation 500 shiv sena activists gathered there.son of congress party official killed. police lathi charged, burst tear gas and fired rubber bullets.district police chief j.p. birdhi and a dsp among those injured.shiv sena called for a hartal in protest.authorities called for a magisterial inquiry into clash. d.s. multani, additional deputy commissioner, gurdaspur will conduct inquiry and submit report in a month to deputy commissioner r.p.s. pawar.toi 12/26/85
cause: suspected backlash to killing of bombay gangster the previous week.also related to a kite-flying festival.reported: desecration of a religious site (bapunagar) and animal slaughter (goat)
kite-flying festivals. some killed/injured due to accidents, some due to quarrels over kite flying festival.
kite-flying festival was the local prec. event.total killed all over gujarat were 7, total injured 120 (due to rioting in kite flying festival also in other data entries)several teenagers were injured in petty quarrels or by falling from rooftops.
kite-flying festivalsno other information. no killed/injured/arrested reported. all the article says is that there were a number of brickbatting incidents during the kite flying festival.
the trouble started following a skirmish between two persons at a local cinema hall. there was a violent clash between two groups and 20 shops were set ablaze in the sudden eruption of violence.
shiv sena procession for common civil code, passed by a place of worship. this was the precipitating cause of the rioting. a judicial inquiry was ordered.
no other information given. reported in conjunction with aurangabad riots, 17-18 jan. 1986.all that the article says is that  sangamner was also rocked by riots but the situation was under control. 
all the article says is that there was a fresh toll of violence in the curfew bound area of kalupur-dariapur and that the situation was under control the following day.
described only as  group clash.  very likely hindu-muslim.the article states  four persons were killed and 15 others injured in a group clash at golann village in anand district.
there was a group clash when a bandh was called in the town by the vhp to protest against a stabbing incident at a cinema hall a few days ago.
there was fresh violence here. a man was stabbed during the curfew relaxation period. soon after, a mob attacked the people of another community and also indulged in stonethrowing at the police.
the violent incidents were a sequel to a special prayer meeting at jama masjid to protest against the throwing open of the ram janam bhoomi temple in ayodhya (the link made). the first incident was reported from darya ganj minutes after the prayer concluded.
sporadic violence erupted here following the members of a particular community.
sporadic violence erupted here following the members of a particular community.
patna: at least 13 persons were injured when a procession (coding question->religious or not?) was taken out by members of a particular community was brickbatted by miscreants in bettiah.
link made to town: ayodhyaprotesting against the reopening of ram janam bhoomi/babri masjid, mobs clashed with the police. the trouble started when the mobs, shouting anti-india slogans, indulged in brickbatting forcing shopkeepers to down the shutters.
the riot occured in connection with the ram janmabhoomi issue. rival groups tore through curfew regulations and created terror in several localities, burning shops and houses and clashing with each other.
links specifically made in the articles to ayodhya and shah bano case.the incident occured when some people came in two vehicles armed with hand-grenades and some weapons and clashed with those taking out a religious procession.
alleged burial of a hindu is the  other  prec. event.there was sporadic violence, heavy brickbatting and firing in varanasi following the alleged burial of a trader sp gupta, who had been reported missing. curfew was clamped.
there were incidents of violence and arson in which attempts were made to set ablaze places of worship. tension prevailed in both cities jammu and srinagar, as incidents of violence and police firing together left scores of people injured. 9 policemen including an inspector were placed under suspension on charges of negligence of duty. there was ample evidence that the jamait-i-islami was behind the violence, arson and communal tension in the valley and the jim and shiv sena were both banned.
the army was called out in anantnag and shoot-at-sight following fresh reports of mob violence, looting and arson even as complete hartal was observed in several towns in protest against the reopening of the ram janmabhoomi temple at ayodhya. the officials above were suspended to appease the minority hindus but this caused more tension. 27 villages were attacked in anantnag district alone.
there were incidents of violence and arson in which attempts were made to set ablaze places of worship. tension prevailed in both cities jammu and srinagar, as incidents of violence and police firing together left scores of people injured. the arrest figures are a total for the state.
links made to babri masjid (ayodhya) and shah bano casethe incident followed rumors that there would be disturbances in the city on the above two issues. sources claimed that there were deliberate attempts at creating communal violence. the bsf and efr patrolled the areas of the city where the minority community was the majority.
possible case of police vs. single groupthe police opened fire to disperse a 15000 strong stone-throwing mob. despite a ban on religious meetings about 15000 people managed to assemble violating prohibitory ordersa total of 4000 preventive and substantive arrests have been made in the state since the outbreak of violence at various places, the article stated.
police fired in the air to quell a mob in bandipur even as fresh violence erupted in srinagar city. the violence in bandipur was sparked off when a group of miscreants went round the city asking people to keep their shops closed. the union govt. promised all possible central help to fight communal elements.
fresh violence occured in the town while the union assured all possible central help to fight communal elements.
meerut march 2: curfew was reimposed in the trouble-torn areas of meerut following 3 deaths in stabbing incidents during a curfew relaxation this morning. the arrested figures are a total since feb 14
indefinite curfew was clamped in sambhal following an incident wherein one person was killed. no further information available.
the violence was the sequel to a clash between two groups during the dhuleti (second day of holi) celebrations when members of one group threw colored powder on some people in the turk bazar area of the town.
there was a clash when a group of 150 holi revellers passing through the muslim dominated town of kasba neuria threw colored water on the residents. soon, a crowd of 4000 people surrounded them and beat them with iron rods and lathis.
a report from hyderabad said that four people were injured in group clashes in mangalghat locality   this is all the article reports.
the trouble started with a quarrel between two youths in a theater and eventually developed into a group clash. the police were forced to open fire.
in ahmedabad, barring a clash in the sarangpur area, forcing the police to burst teargas shells, the dhuleti celebrations passed off peacefully.
aurangabad, march 28: the police have arrested 21 people for violating prohibitory orders in gavrai. some people gathered and started stoning the police. a 24 hour curfew was clamped in the taluka following mob violence last night.
the trouble started with a police raid on liquor dens and the police were stoned. the trouble spread to other areas. the tension mounted after a murderous attack on a student following the funeral procession of a rickshaw driver (a victim of the violence) and the police even opened fire.
the trouble started when some miscreants threw stones on a holi procession. enraged, the processionists set on fire vehicles and houses and ransacked a place of worship in the group clash that followed.
the areas of kalupur and dariapur had been tense for some days, when trouble erupted again on this day. there were incients of stabbing and arson in kalupur locality.
link made to rioting elsewhere in gujarat, 22 march--6 april 1986. one of the towns that experienced communal clashes during this period.
link made to rioting elsewhere in gujarat, 22march--6 april 1986. one of the towns that experienced communal clashes during this period.
link made to rioting elsewhere in gujarat, 22march--6 april 1986. one of the towns that experienced communal clashes during this period. in borshad, the situation became tense when a man was stabbed to death and the incident was given a communal turn.
a police officer had to open fire to drive a crowd of curfew defying cricket enthusiasts indoors, in the kalupur area. 500 people started shouting slogans and bursting crackers, defying the curfew that was imposed due to clashes earlier this month following group clashes.
attempted procession on the occasion of the govt. preventing the babri action committee from holding a conference in the town, was stopped by the police. this was followed by clashes and there was even a bomb explosion near a police car the same night.
bjp/shiv sena procession defied ban orders and the police tried to stop them. this led to violence, arson and finally police firing.the next day, there were attacks on policemen following which, the police resorted to firing again even as the annual chariot procession of lord rama and garuda was being taken out in the city.
all the article says is that  one person was killed in a communal flare-up in hapur town of gaziabad district.
link made to ayodhya, opening of ram janmabhoomilocal prec. event: a 2500 strong procession by babri masjid action committee protesting opening the procession turned violent and started stoning the police, trying to break the cordon. the police opened fire after teargassing and lathi charges failed. the violence continued for several days while muslims demonstrated at delhi, calling the event pure calculated murder of muslims.
there were group clashes following a stabbing incident. no other information is available.
the trouble began when a group of people allegedly started throwing stones at a ramnavmi procession. there was arson and the police fired into the air. curfew was imposed.
there was trouble in the kacchi mohalla area where acid bulbs were thrown at a shiv jayanti procession and in the communal clash that followed, even swords were used.
the clash was sparked off when a shiv jayanti procession passing through the hamid chowk area was stoned. the stonethrowing was serious and curfew was imposed for several days.
the trouble arose following an altercation over a minor matter between members of two different groups. group clashes ensued which caused extensive damage to property
the rioting spread here from nasik, nanded and panvel. 12 persons were injured in stone throwing incidents during a shiv jayanti procession.
rumors that the statue of shivaji had been disfigured at sankeshwar, in karnataka, led to rioting with incidents of stonethrowing and arson. there could be other motivations too such as the all party conference a week ago to demand the merger of the border areas in karnataka with maharashtra.also previous violence (communal) in nanded, nasik and panvel could be viewed as spreading to kohlapur as a final cause.
the aticle states that miscreants set fire to shops after two violence-free days in nanded. no other information is available.
there was a resurfacing of group clashes here after a green flag was spotted near a hanuman temple. there were incidents of stabbing and arson and curfew was imposed.
baroda (pti): 14 people were injured in a commotion caused by an unidentified person firing into two clashing mobs at jambusar town.
there was a group clash here in which 7 houses and a cattleyard were set on fire. no other infomation available.
reported as clashes over  shops near place of worship.  classify as desecration or construction?the trouble started last night following an altercation between members of two communities over some shops near a place of worship. rampaging mobs indulged in firing, bomb throwing, arson and stabbings.
the report says that allahabad was rocked with fresh communal clashes. firearms, bricks and bombs were used in the clashes.
there was a group class here following a quarrel between two persons.acid and sharp weapons were used.
there was a group clash when members of one group tried to lead a festival procession with bullocks. there was looting and stonethrowing and the police had to open fire on the 8000 strong mob.
the communal disturbances in bhuj followed an attack on shops by 20 people. the rival group took revenge later at night. curfew was imposed.
local prec. event: shiv sena meetingoff. transferred: 3 police head constables suspendedit is not clear whether actual rioting took place evn though the report says that members of both communities gathered and the police intervened to save the situation.
this long and serious riot was sparked off by the pelting of the annual rath yatra of various deities, with stones and other missiles, in ahmedabad. group clashes swiftly ensued. there were many incidents of stabbing, looting and arson over several days.normalcy was finally reported to have returned on july 18
police resorted to lathi charge and teargassing of a violent mob protesting arrest of a pro-pakistani politician
the report says that the peace in ahmedabad was marred by a fatal stabbing incident. no other infomation available.
communal rioting in ahmedabad was link. no other infomation available.
there was a cracker like blast in a cinema hall which was reported with another incident in which there was stone throwing.i am not sure if there was any group clash at all.
the communal clash in ramangaram followed the stoning of a religious karaga 1000 strong procession. there were incidents of arson, stonethrowing and police firing over the four day period and a bus passenger was attacked by co-passengers of another community.
there was an attack on a person by a mob at palitana, a jain pilgrimage center. the man died. no other infomation available.
the report says  the clash started when one person was attending nature s call near another s house in an area where members of different communities lived side by side. this was followed by a group clash and curfew was imposed.7/25
the newspaper reports that the violence spread from ramangaram to chennapatna . there were group clashes here precipitated by rumor mongering (in the wake of police firing after the stone throwing on a religious procession in ramangaram).the reported cause of the chennapatna clash was tension over the alleged fencing of a piece of land by one group.
the report says is that  a stabbing incident and an attempt on a woman s life led to tension in some parts of the city.  the culprits were apprehended. no other infomation available. i am not sure if this was a riot even though it is marked as definite.
illegal attack on shops and houses. shiv sena involvementa shiv sena corporator pointed out some shops in dharavi following which a group of 15-20 people went on a rampage assaulting people and ransacking the shops.
the communal clash followed an attempt to set fire to a building in navarangpura area. there was stone throwing and rioting and shoot-at-sight orders were enforced.
indefinite curfew was imposed at singoli following a communal clash. police opened fire to quell the mobs.
raksha bandhan was the local prec. event (i don t understand how raksha bandhan figures in the article)
there was rioting at pydhonie following a gokulashtami procession. there was stonethrowing and police rushed to the spot to bring the situation under control.
there was stone throwing between two groups. the police opened fire and brought the situation under control. no other information is available.
all the report says is  one incident of stabbing today marred an otherwise peaceful day in this curfew bound north gujarat town .  no other infomation available.
incident began with visitors entering ferozshah kotla ruins with shoes on..desecration???
there was communal violence following a clash between two groups of people in the ferozeshah kotla ruins. the place has acquired the sanctity of a religious shrine but is frequented by picnic groups who insist on going into the mazhar with shoes on.
the trouble followed a clash between muharram processionists and some youth. this was followed by group violence in which there were many arson attempts including one on a place of worship.
school official ordered girls to wear  dupattas  on their heads to cover them. this caused resentment and led to communal clashes.
there was a clash between two communities at village kisko in which 1 person died and 31 were injured. no other infomation available.
there were group clashes that seem to be clearly commual because they were said to  cast a shadow on muharram celebrations.  cause and precipitating event not mentioned. no other infomation available.
this group clash occured in the foreground of recent violent incidents in hauz-qazi and other areas of the walled city. it was precipitated by an argument between two youths that escalated first to a scuffle and subsequently to a group clash.
there were several different incidents of violence all occasioned by the simultaneous celebrations of muharram and ganapati immersion. in fact, the cause for some of the violence was the removal of a ganesh pandal by muharram processionists.
coding question: began quarrel over repairs of a religious structure. how to classify?
the trouble started following a skirmish between two groups over repairs of a religious structure in the shahpur area. there was stonethrowing, arson and police firing.
the repot says that one stabbing incident marred an otherwise peaceful day.
mobs were bent upon taking out a ramlila procession on it s traditional route through the walled city but the police fired teargas shells to disperse them. policemen lathi charged also and the crowd responded with brickbats.the procession was finally taken out two days later.
an indefinite curfew was clamped in mehsana following a group clash that involved about a dozen incidents of violence. no other infomation available.
members of the minority community tried to stop a kali procession which led to large scale violence and arson. there was firing and curfew was imposed.
all that the report tells us is that a police patrol was attacked by a group of antisocial elements. no other infomation available.
the trouble started when a religious procession was stoned . this was followed by a stone throwing clash and the police had to open fire to disperse the mob.
there were group clashes in the chakala area of bharuch in which there were stabbing incidents, arson and lathi charges. no other infomation available.
cause attributed to a rumor that linked two (probably unassociated) incidents: the assault of a local goonda of the minority community by local gamblers and the molestation of a woman.there were cases of arson and looting and the riot lasted for four days.
the article states: the situation in morshi where one person was killed when he was attacked by a group of eight,was reported to be under control. 4 people were arrested in this connection. no other infomation available.
the communal riots started following a stone-throwing incident during a procession. there were several cases of arson and the police had to open fire to quell the mob.
coding question: two different articles give different dates for the same riot.the violence followed a shiv sena attempt to open a new branch at kohar, a decision that was opposed by the villagers. there was stone-throwing and looting and the police had to open fire.
the trouble in majalgaon started when a religious procession reached the old bus stand area and a mob collected from the nearby market, following a stone-throwing incident. there were incidents of arson and the police had to open fire.
a trifling incident between two youths led to a communal clash. arson cases were reported and curfew was clamped.
links made to riots in bangalore 12/7-12/8/86in mysore, trouble broke out as a huge procession turned violent near town hall.
the riots were sparked off by a newspaper story in the deccan herald that allegedly carried an insulting reference to prophet mohammed.there was large scale violence and arson and the paper later apologized calling the article  in bad taste .
links made to riots in bangalore. in tumkur, a huge procession turned violent and went on a rampage of arson, stabbing and stone-throwing.
the violence was a sequel of an attack by one community on a boy from another community. there was retaliation and this led to a violent communal clash. the police had to open fire to disperse mobs.
there were stone throwing incidents between members of two groups and the police had to open fire to quell them. no other infomation is available.
there was a group clash in jalgaon in which swords, steel rods and a gun were used. no other infomation available.
there are two disparate causes mentioned for the communal violence in dariapur and kalupur areas of the city -- the first is the kite-flying festival and the second is objections ot campaigning by a political party for the coming civic elections. there were incidents of stone-throwing, stabbing and firing.
the location is not named. all we are told is that it was a village near phulwarisharif area on the outskirts of patna.the communal clash occured after some armed members of a particular community went to the village to attack someone. the villagers soon surrounded the miscreants and the clash ensued.
violence broke out in nadiad following a quarrel between two groups who were flying kites. there were incidents of large-scale looting and arson and the police fired 15 rounds into the air.
the trouble started following a quarrel between two groups during the kite-flying festival. srp personnel opened fire to quell the mob.
all the report tells us is that there was a clash between two groups of people at sangameshwar in the powerloom town of malegaon in which 7 people were injured.
the trouble started when a bjp-supported independent candidate pradeep sharma took out a victory procession soon after his election. some processionists allegedly shouted abusive slogans which set off stone-throwing and stabbing incidents in the communally sensitive bapunagar area. the violence continued for several days.
the report says that curfew was extended in ujjain in view of tension between two groups following a bandh. no other information is available.
this was part of the series of the bapunagar candidate s riots. the newspaper states that peace was marred by a single incident where 2 people were attacked by a group of 4.
there was a minor riot at sion that was provoked by the singing of a song on a friday. the singer was assaulted by his angry neighbor and four others.
the violence began soon after the arrest of a notorious underworld don, abdul latif wahab, and the mob that had collected outside the police station went on a rampage and there were many clashes and incidents of stabbing and arson.
two groups clashed in village kapus talani because of old enmity. no further information is available.
indefinite curfew was imposed in nadiad following clashes between two groups of people, in which shops and vehicles were burnt.
seems to be hindu-police since the processionists that clashed with the police in the riot were protesting cow slaughter. they all brickbatted and broke the window panes of two state roadways buses.
curfew imposed on pali on march 18 in the wake of communal riots was completely withdrawn on march 29.  is all the article reports. no further information is available
crackers were hurled at a  rang panchami  procession at itwara area. the police had to teargas and lathi charge to disperse an irate mob. communal trouble had been anticipated since the holi procession was on a friday and it would coincide with the muslims  returning from prayers.
when a holi procession passed in front of the shahajani mosque in the muslim dominated town, it was stoned. there were clashes and cases of looting and arson, though there were no cases of assault or stabbing. a day prior to the incident someone had thrown color on a mosque s door but there had been a peace meeting wherein it had been resolved to not have any trouble during the procession. the nature of the rioting (no assaults, etc) puzzled officials.
trouble started when stones were hurled by members of a minority community at vhp volunteers who were trying to persuade people to shut down shops in a bandh against the plans of the babri masjid action committee. this led to a communal clash. tension was feared as likely to mount with the upcoming ram navami festival.
no information othe than what has been entered is available.
violence broke out in connection with the ram navami festival. no further information is available
violence broke out in connection with the ram navami festival. group clashes and stone pelting were reported when the shobhayatra was being taken out. no further information is available
the police used teargas and lathi charge to disperse a mob that was protesting the exhumation of a body by calling it  unislamic . a strongly possible muslim-police clash.
there were communal clashes at virpur following an attack on a religious ram janki procession. more than a 100 houses were set on fire and there were also reports of police firing.
there was violence at thasra when, following the result of the india-pakistan match at sharjah, a group burst crackers which annoyed another group. there were incidents of stone throwing and curfew was clamped.
the link was with rioting in virpur on the 9th.there were clashes in baroda in connection with the vhp processions (and violence associated with them) in different parts of the state.
the cause of the renewed sput of violence was (ironically) the decision of the police and the organizers of teh ram rathyatra to disperse the people to avoid violence. there were clashes and police firing.
there was a communal clash in madras following an rss procession s beating of drums as it passed in front of three places of worship. in the clashes that ensued, there was stabbing and shops and police vehicles were damaged.
all that the report says is that there were communal clashes in bilgram village on the 15th in which nearly a 100 people were injured. no further information is available
there were communal riots in meerut on the occasion of the shab-e-barat, the birth anniversary of dr. ambedkar. the trouble followed the gutting of a firewood shop which took place when a group of persons was objectng to the playing of songs on loudspeakers at a function.
the link was with rioting in thasra on the 11th and in baroda on the 12th..there were clashes in dhundara in connection with the vhp processions (and violence associated with them) in different parts of the state.
there were clashes in prantij in connection with the communal clashes in other parts of the state due to vhp processions on the ram janmabhoomi issue. heavy stone throwing was reported.
the fresh violence broke out in meerut just 36 hours after the shab-e-barat clashes.there was heavy stone throwing and lobbing of grenades following an eve-teasing incident.
there was an outbreak of fresh violence and curfew was clamped. there were 2 incidents of brickbatting and 3 of arson and at least 11 shops were set on fire. no further information is available.
a mob threw stones at a shiv jayanti procession at hingona in yawal tehsil. no further information is available.
there were group clashes when a shiv jayanti procession accompanied by music, dance and bursting of crackers passed in front of a place of worship and was stoned.
ahmedabad may 4: two persons were injured as the police opened fire to disperse rival groups throwing stones at each other at bhenderi pole in the kalupur area. no other information is available.
there were sporadic incidents of violence in the wadi area. the trouble started when two groups started stoning each other the previous night. 2 srp constables were among the injured.
there were group clashes in bharuch after a boy entered a place of worship with his shoes on to retrieve a cricket ball that had rolled in while he was playing on the street. the three-day violence had several stabbing incidents and curfew was imposed.
these communal riots were described as one of the worst ever witnessed at meerut, and were triggered off by a bomb blast. notwithstanding the ban imposed on installing public announcement systems, loudspeakers continued to blare communal slogans which aggravated the trouble.a high level inquiry was set up comprising of mr. gyan prakash, mr. ghulam hussain and mr. ram krishan.the pac commandant rd tripathi was suspended and the dig, mr. nathu lal was replaced.
there was an accident between a motorcycle and a bicycle. the cyclist allegedly teased the woman on the pillion of the motorcycle and the incident snowballed into a full-scale communal riot. among those arrested were several charged with rumor-mongering.
there was a police vs. jamaat-i-islami clash following a demonstration against an allegedly sacrilegious book. the jim youth stoned buildings and passing vehicles and the police had to fire in the air and burst tear gas shells to disperse the crowds.
there was a fresh wave of violence (in the curfew relaxation period) which started soon after the friday prayers. slogan shouting mobs ransacked shops and set them afire. all the above police arrangements were made to check the communal violence.
this is a probable police vs muslims clash. the article states that the police fired on  a group of people belonging to a certain community  after the group started hurling stones at the police. no other information is available.
2 killed (ghaziabad): two persons were killed and three injured in an exchange of gunfire between two communities in begamabad locality in modinagar last night.
the trouble started when a procession of one community went past the religious place of another community. group clashes ensued with stone throwing, arson and rioting. of the injured, 10 were policemen.
there were group clashes following the slaughter of four cows. a protest bandh was called by the shiv sena, vhp and the patit pawan sanghatna.
after a member of a particular community was arrested, an irate mob gathered at the kotwali demanding his release. after the mob was dispersed, there were group clashes with stabbing incidents. the pac was deployed.
the army was called out in baroda following group clashes and police firing. the alert to the army was sounded despite the withdrawal of a strike call by the state police association following an agreement reached earlier in the daybefore the agreement was reached, there was violence which followed the failure of the third round of talks between the coordination committee and the state govt. the govt conceded all police demands in view of the rathyatra procession the following day which is always accompanied by group clashes. the police said that the reason for the violence could not be ascertained immediately. he felt that some elements may have tried to take advantage of the proposed strike by policemen.
the violence broke out along the route of the funeral procession of the victim, a rss worker, of a previos stabbing incident. arson, assault and stone-throwing marred the route. rioting continued for several days also at the wadi area, known for frequent communal violence.the depy mayor and bjp leader, nalin bhatt, and five others were arrested in connection with the violence.
the police opened fire to quell a mob in the valley bazar area. the mob indulged in stone-throwing and hurled a bomb.the rathyatra was taken out peacefully ona route agreed to by citizens of both communities but elsewhere in the city, there was a lot of violence. a couple of days later, reports said, violence had assumed alarming proportions despite the deployment of the army.the dm, radhey shyam kaushik was transferred, and with his transfer, the govt had transferred almost all civil and police officials responsible for maintaining law and order in meerut. mr. i george joseph replaced mr. kaushik.
there were  isolated stabbing incidents  which served to  inflame passions  following the banning of the shahi imam of jama masjid from entering meerut (in connection with the communal riots in meerut) and the rumor of an assault attempt on him. there was an entourage to the masjid and traders downed their shutters. there were sporadic scenes of violence and arson.
there were communal clashes at makrana ( for the third time in the past month according to the report) in which a group of 70 people armed with hockey sticks and daggers arrived from borawa (4 kms away) and attacked some houses. intervention by the local mla saved the situation. he accused the police of inaction for although some cid men were present during the clash, they did not take any action.
there was a group clash in baroda and the police fired 10 rounds in the air to control the situation. indefinite curfew was clamped. no further information is available.
curfew was reimposed in meerut after a powerful bomb explosion in a utensil shop and renewed violence occured. several incidents of stabbing and  hitting  were reported.
curfew was imposed in wadi and city areas following renewed mob violence after reports that the depy mayor, nalin bhatt, and 6 others arrested under the anti-terrorist act would not be produced before the court during the hearing. there were brickbatting mobs and the situation was stated to be tense.
there was an exchange of fire between police and rioters indulging in arson and violence. the trouble started when some people tried to defy curfew restrictions. when the police tried to prevent them, a mob gathered and threw stones. curfew relaxation was cancelled.
there were group clashes with incidents of violence and arson because of  previous enmity.  no further information is available.
curfew was imposed in the fathepura area of the city following renewed violence in stone-throwing and stabbing incidents. the police lobbed several teargas shells to disperse the stone throwing mobs.the cause of the sudden flare-up was not known, the police said.
the army was called out and shoot at sight orders were issued as the communal situation in meerut took a serious turn following the death of six people in clashes on the outskirts of the town. the killing of the six poeple took place after some pilgrims on their way from hardwar to the pura mahadev temple near sakanti (on the outskirts of meerut) were involved in a clash. the pilgrims apparently then took the law in their own hands and went on a violent rampage.the admn announced that despite curfew, all arrangements would be made to enable the pilgrims to offer ganges water in various shiva temples in the district on the occasion of the shivratri festival the next day.
the police opened fire on an unruly mob which indulged in violence, repotedly agitating following the death of a girl who was killed on july 21 last. no further information is available.
there were police vs.unspecified mob clashes for three days at bohri kadal here following certain remarks made by a girl student of vishwa bharti school during a debate. there were sporadic clashes and stone-throwing. no further information is available.
all the report says is:the situation in the city s garden reach area, the scene of police firing on 5 sept following a row over a muharram procession, was peaceful today.no further information is available.
a mob indulged in stone throwing when a ganapati festival procession was passing through a sensitive area. the police fired four rounds into the air to disperse the mobs.
the festival was the ganesh immersion.the police opened fire following a stone throwing incident during the procession.
baroda (uni): an indefinite curfew was imposed in rajpipla town following group clashes. the police opened fire to quell stone-throwing mobs.
the festival is not specified. the report says that a religious procession turned violent and stoned shops. the police resorted to lathi charge. no further information is available.
the festival is not specified. the report says that two groups clashed over the taking out of a religious procession . the police resorted to firing 22 rounds to disperse the brickbatting mobs. no further information is available.
the festival is not specified. the police resorted to lathi charge when two groups calshed over the stoning of a religious procession by some miscreants.the figures given are a total for chikodi and ramdurg.
the festival is not specified. the police resorted to lathi charge when two groups calshed over the stoning of a religious procession by some miscreants.the figures given under the entry for chikodi are a total for chikodi and ramdurg.
the violence broke out after a dispute between a motorcyclist and an autorickshaw driver in shahgunj locality. rumors of violence spread quickly and gangs of youths threw stones damaging shops and wayside stalls. an attempt to set ablaze a place of worship was foiled by the timely intervention of the police.
troble first erupted at a govt. milk booth following a dispute over the distribution of milk. some residents objected to the booth vendor selling milk to one group at a premium. the altercation soon developed into a riot and there were group clashes involving stones and soda bottles. the dcp (zone ii) arrived on the scene with a police party but his car was surrounded by a mob and he thus opened his car door and fired into the air. residents later alleged, however, that he began firing  indiscriminately  at  bystanders. the police also had to open fire the next day following a fresh outbreak of arson and rioting.
group clashes here started soon after some miscreants started bursting crackers in a communally sensitive area upon the defeat of india in a cricket match. there were incidents of stone-throwing and stabbing.
there were mob clashes at jogeshwari area following the bursting of crackers by a group of people at the imminent defeat of india in a cricket match with england. some people took umbrage to this and this led to a clash in which stones, acid bulbs, soda bottles and burning kerosene balls were used.
the trouble was kindled when the mammoth procession taken out by the khilafat committee (on the occasion of mohammad paigambar) was passing through baburao jagtap marg in agripada. there was a sudden burst of crackers which was interpreted by a section of the local population as a celebration of india s defeat in yesterday s cricket match. processionists jumped out of the 100 trucks that formed the cavalcade as stones and other missiles were flung.the bjp charged that several pakistani nationals, who had overstayed in the country, were responsible for the riots.
the police fired in the air and burst teargas shells to disperse activists of the islamic students  league staging a protest rally at maisuma bazar here. the students were protesting against the state govt. s decision to bar them from taking out processions in the city.
a man was caught trying to procure kerosene for the third time from a shop and was manhandled. he later returned with a group of anti social elements of one community and a clash ensued. the police burst teragas shells and fired 2 rounds to bring the mobs under control.
* the police were extremely prompt in nabbing the three culprits, and the city was placed under a 48-hour curfew. godse, the chairman of the particular temple trust, appealed to the people to refrain from violence since the police had acted promptly. the shiv sena, the bjp and the patit pavan sanghatana immediately called for a pune  bandh.  (toi 5/1/88)
* it was believed that the riots were sparked off because earlier in the day the aurangabad bench of the bombay high court reserved its ruling on a writ petition filed by a shiv sena corporator, challenging the mayoral election. the outbreak of violence may have had something to do with the court ruling. the clashes also broke out on the eve of id and this added to the tension. by the third day the fighting had spread to the neighbouring areas of paithan town and bidkin village. extra security arrangements were made in muslim areas. shoot-on-sight orders were issued to the police as the city remained curfew-bound on the second day. 3,500 additional police personnel were deployed as were 480 srp men. on the second day itself 72 stabbing incidents were reported. (toi 5/18/88, 5/19/88, 5/20/88 and 5/25/88)
* dusk to dawn curfew was declared and shoot-on-sight orders were issued to the police. the reported  group clashes  took place the at the advent of ramzan. some destruction of property worth rs. one lakh was reported. (toi 5/19/88)
* the general tension arose when one group prevented another from holding a meeting in a particular place. the land belonged to the archaeological survey of india. (toi 6/25/88)doesn t hindu-muslim  yes  contradict the  strong likelihood  clause?  yes  sounds pretty definite.
* the riot started when a group of dalits, who were returning from prayers at a local srinath temple, were attacked by stone-throwing mobs of town  residents.  the police clashed with these residents in order to put an end to the violence. (toi 8/11/88)
* these clashes, that lasted four days, broke out after people heard the news of pakistani president zia-ul-haq s death in a plane crash. mobs took to the streets and maulvi farooq was charged by the government for inciting violence. police firing was the reported cause of the four deaths. the mobs were allegedly pro-pakistan; the police imposed curfew on the city on the second day of violence and issued shoot-on-sight orders. (toi 8/18/88, 8/19/88)
* not much information is available on this riot, beyond the fact that  rival groups  clashed in sporadic day-long clashes. the violence started when a group of 25 youths stoned a police patrol. five policemen were also injured. (toi 8/26/88)
* police reportedly opened fire when a mob leaving the jama masjid after friday prayers turned violent and stoned the police. the police used teargas on the mob. it is significant that this is one incident in a series of ten-day long violence in the city--while each clash is sparked off for a different reason, it is more than likely that president zia of pakistan s death in a plane crash may have been the tool various individuals in the valley used to  incite violence.  (toi 8/27/88)
* this clash occured between rival rgroups of convicts within a jail compound. a scuffle between mannulal singh and hanif gulubhai sheikh caused other supporters of theirs to get involved. it is believed that one gang consisted of supporters for rama naik while the other one supported one ibrahim dawood, a  notorious  character from chembur. (toi 9/17/88)
* the bandh was called by the vishwa hindu parishad (vhp) in protest against the proposed march to ayodhya by the babri masjid action committee, and the latter s demand for the liberation of the ram janmabhoomi. the bandh, which managed to secure the day-long closure of 60 to 80 percent of the shops all over u.p., reportedly triggered off the group clashes. the clashes continued for five days and were observed in other parts of u.p. as well. (toi 10/9/88)
* this riot started on the same day as the aligarh riot, and was also sparked off during a bandh called by the vishwa hindu parishad (vhp) in response to the babri masjid action committee s proposed march to ayodhya. this was the most heavy spate of riots seen in 1988. (toi 10/9/88)
* this spate of communal violence began a few days after similar riots in neighbouring muzaffarnagar and aligarh--it was also triggered off by unrest over the babri masjid action committee s proposed march to ayodhya, to protest the ram janmabhoomi site. (toi 10/12/88, 10/13/88, 10/15/88)
* a police lathi-charge on a procession of people immersing an idol of the goddess durga into the river, resulted in a stampede. (toi 10/24/88, 10/26/88)
* the violence was reported to have begun during the  bharat milap  festival, following a bomb explosion. the bharat milap procession is thought to have raised provocative slogans regarding the ram janmabhoomi issue. faizabad was under curfew for three days. (toi 10/23/88)
the article on june 3rd is about the reopening of shops in beegod after having been closed for two months following a communal clash.a bandh was being observed in the town on the call of the hindu raksha samiti. it demamded the removal of the sarpanch chandmal vyas, who had shielded members of a particular community involved in communal violence that occured on the occasion of sheetlashtmi.
100 held in beed as precaution.aurangabad june 7: more than a 100 people belonging to communal organizations have been taken into custody and a heavy police force has been deployed in view of tomorrow s bandh called by the shiv sena.beed has been in the grip of communal tension in the past fortnight following incidents of stabbing and arson.prohibitory orders have been promulgated and a ban has been enforced on the carrying of weapons and movement of people after 11 pm. the police have seized a large quantity of arms following searches of shiv sena s leaders houses in beed.
this report of rioting is part of an article on communal violence in rajasthan. the information on each riot is perfunctory. according to mr. ramakrishna, the violence was basically  stray incidents of law and order which had been blown up into cases of communal violence . the violence was a result of eve-teasing.
this report of rioting is part of an article on communal violence in rajasthan. the information on each riot is perfunctory. according to mr. ramakrishna, the violence was basically  stray incidents of law and order which had been blown up into cases of communal violence .the article says that tension prevailed in jaipur when the member of a particular community was killed after a dispute.
this riot took place in tilak vihar in west delhi. it started with a clash between two groups of boys at around 8:15 on the 28th night.
this riot took place in tilak vihar in west delhi. a group of boys from one community went on aspree of random violence. they first attacked khurshid alam,35, who was heading for his home in the jj colony in khyala, behind tilak nagar. mr. aggarwal said that the boys who numbered around 12 were the same ones who had coused rioting here on june 28. he was confident of arresting them since they had been identified.
this report of rioting is part of an article on communal violence in rajasthan. the information on each riot is perfunctory. according to mr. ramakrishna, the violence was basically  stray incidents of law and order which had been blown up into cases of communal violence . tonk was rocked by violence when a youth was killed over the issue of eve-teasing. cufew continued on june 4 in some parts of tonk city while the police took out a flag march on the 3rd.
a 5000 strong bandh procession of bjp, shiv sena and rss workers were in the vicinity of a mosque on the day of the maharashtra bandh when stone-throwing started. the police intervened and had to resort to firing. the situation was reported to be under control but tense.mr. sukhthankar said that there were  stray violent incidents in other places but none of them were serious .
there was a clash between members of two communities when some people objected to the erction of a flag post by the other community near a place of worship.the injured included a police officer. 5 shops, 2 houses and a clinic were burnt down and the loss was estimated at 3 lakhs.
tension gripped the trouble-prone localities of the walled city following a clash between members of two communities in baniya pada locality.according to the police, a prakash rastogi,46, was fatally stabbed by members of another community at 5 pm after a mr. yusuf who was going on a motorcycle sustained bullet injuries.the second incident occured in the same locality half an hour later when ashok,48, and vijay,43, were stabbed by miscreants. brickbatting was also reported from several sensitive localities in the city.
more than 6 govt. vehicles were damaged and an unknown number of people killed in communal violence in parvati mohalla. the rioting started when a religious procession was stoned by unidentified people from rooftops in parvati mohalla and the processionists were fired at from rooftops near the bishaharithan.the irate mob belonging to one community looted 2 shops belonging to members of the other community. the police fired 4 rounds to disperse the crowds while rioters themselves had fired 1 round and had used sharp weapons against each other. prohibitory orders were promulgated.the dm said that no arrests had so far been made and that the situation was volatile.the admn had been informed about tension in the area on the 10th when organisers of a religious ceremony at bishaharithan had shoute dnati police and anti admn slogans when the latter had tried to remove encroachments on the road.an uneasy calm prevailed on the 13th in parvati, tatarpur, kotwali and mojahidpur areas of the town. among the 5 arrested on that day was a nsui worker who was allegedly behind the rioting.
curfew was clamped in eight police stations in the city following police firing on a moharram procession early on aug 13. the police opened fire in the gauraganj locolity following clashes when a duldul procession was prevented from taking an unauthorized route.
in the entally-beniapukur area of the city, was in the grip of tension following a road accident wherein the members of a minority community (muslims) were run over by a public bus. mr. ahmed, who was present at entally around the time of the clash, said that large numbers of muslims gathered in the area and tried to set the bus on fire. this was opposed by members of the majority community . the police intervened and bore the brunt of the violence. the clash was officially described as police versus muslims. the police fired 30 rounds of teargas shells and later opened fire. there were rumors that the mosque in the area was also attacked and bombs had been hurled at the building.mr. ahmed said that those who burnt the bus and those who opposed it clashed and hurled bombs. the dcp and 10 others, 9 of which were policemen, were injured.
tension had been building up over muharram processions in metiabruz locality of calcutta. although muharram day (12th) passed off peacefully, tension broke out in the open on the 16th. one person died, two were injured and 31 arrested in a clash over eve-teasing in the pilkhana area.
the serious clash in sasaram was between minor groups belonging to two communities (probably harijan-muslim). it was sparked off by claims by both groups to an akhara situated behind a mosque. it is alleged that the hindus had not only encroached upon the akhara land but had extended its boundary by laying bricks on iys periphery.in the last week of july, muslims met with high officials and requested them to remove the encroachment and flag of the majority community from the akhara. following meetings of the moharram committee with the dm, it was decided that the bricks would be removed but not the flag.moharram passed off peacefully but when raksha bandhan came on the 17th, the muslims demanded to be allowed to offer a chadar on the mazar next to the tarachandi temple where hindus would be making offerings. the administration refused the muslims and their allowing the majority community to take out their procession while refusing the minority community precipitated the riots.
ranchi sept 3: an alert has been sounded in chotanagpur after three people were killed and several injured in a clash between two groups yesterday. four shops were looted during the clash which was a sequel to a dispute over the demolition of the boundary wall of a religious place in the town.the south chotanagpur dig and the police superintendent were camping in the area. addl forces have been deployed to prevent any further incidents.
the trouble in this temple town started when some students of a school, objecting to the interpretation by the teacher of a lesson as derogatory, mustered some people of their community. this resulted in an altercation between people of two communities in front of a police station, disrupting traffic for several hours. the police made a mild cane charge but that did not stop the mob from burning down a press, looting three shops and injuring three policemen in stone-throwing.then the police fired five rounds in the air. prohibitory orders were promulgated but no arrests were made.
a gang war between the dons of two criminal outfits which led to the murder of a youh, was given a communal twist by motivated propaganda (by the bjp and its front organizations) leading to large scale violence. the police tried to control the communal frenzy that followed by firing six rounds.violence spread to sevral villages within the kheralu taluka of mehsana district. a total for these villages is given: 17 shops were looted and 8 people injured.
group clashes occured here in connection with a bandh call given by the bjp, shiv sena and the vhp to mark the foundation laying ceremony of the ram janmabhoomi temple. the figures given above are a total for riots in this six-day period in dhandhuka and meghraj towns.
the  communal clash  in kota was sparked off when a procession to mark anant chaturdashi was stoned when it reached the ghantaghar of the town. members of one community brandished swords and in the clashes that ensued, all kinds of weapons such as guns, knives, daggers, swords, lathis etc were used. 100 shops were set on fire as were 4 police vans.even though the army was deployed on that night at 11:30 pm, looting and arson continued till next afternoon. there was a blast at the chawani crossing and violent incidents were reported from gothdi, nayapura and railway station areas.the chief minister held a high-level meeting at the secretariat to review the situation.kota finally returnde to normalcy on the 20th. justice bhargava was appointed to conduct a judicial probe into the riots.
group clashes occured here in connection with a bandh call given by the bjp, shiv sena and the vhp to mark the foundation laying ceremony of the ram janmabhoomi temple. the killed and injured figures for riots in this six-day period in dhandhuka and meghraj towns are given as a total under the dhandhuka entry.
the conflict in badaun, occasioned by the state govt s last minute move to make urdu the second official language in up, arose when some 300 students of islamia college made a protest march to another college whose students had submitted a memorandum against the proposal to the dm. at least 75 business establishments were destroyed in riots and arson and scores of vehicle were burnt. the casualties were reported on both communities.
an indefinite curfew was imposed in mhow following a clash between members of two communities. the trouble started when a ram janmabhoomi shila procession that was shouting religious slogans was attacked as it passed through the subzimandi area. the police superindt said that the curfew was imposed following incidents of stone throwing and attempted arson. the one injured had received a bullet injury, he added.note: cumulative figures for the injured and arrested in the three mp towns of mhow, ratlam and khargone are given in the entry for ratlam.
indore sept 30th: an indefinite curfew was clamped in khargone following large scale violence.official sources said that 1 person died in a bomb explosion that occured at jhanda chowk when a religious procession was passing through and the other was killed in another incident in the town. the police fired in the air to control the situation. note: cumulative figures for the injured and arrested in the three mp towns of mhow, ratlam and khargone are given in the entry for ratlam.
the first ever lord ganesh procession...provided the background for violence. the police fired 7 roounds to disperse violent mobs.  this is all we are told about the kanajari violence in the toi.
mrs. nirmala buch said that the violence in ratlam had undertones  like some peoplewho wanted to take possession of a plot under dispute  and that the  ram shila poojan campaign had fuelled this violence . there were incidents of arson and curfew was imposed.the figures given above for injured and arrested are a total for the three towns of mhow, khargone and ratlam.
mr. nizamuddin said that the trouble began when stones were thrown at a place of worship while a procession was passing by. the police rushed to the spot and averted a clash. however, rumors soon spread in the town that the procession had been stoned by another group, leading to arson and rioting.he said that the police force again rushed to the place and warned the group in vain.after lathi charge, teargas shells and firing in the air proved futile, they opened fire on the mob and this led to the two deaths.
the trouble in balanagar began when members of a community stoned a place of worship where dasara processionists were playing a band. a clash immediately followed between members of two communities in which lethal weapons were freely used.
the police fired three rounds in the air to disperse miscreants who threw stones at the houses of members of a particular community immediately after the dasara procession in a village (unnamed) 40 kms. from gulbarga. mr. pavate said that the situation was under control but that no arrests were made. discontent over the use of a piece of land for worship was suspected to be the cause for the trouble.
the trouble broke out when a religious procession was stoned in the ram baug area of the town. the police had to fire 10 rounds in the air to disperse the clashing mobs. curfew was imposed and additional police forces were rushed to the riot-hit town.
sporadic incidents of violence were reported from iqbalgahd in an article about dasara clashes. the police fired four rounds in the air to disperse two groups indulging in heavy brickbatting. 4 shops were also set ablaze.
rudan village was rocked by violence on 10th night when a religious procession was stoned. 4 shops were set on fire.
no further information is available except that the sarola clash occured during a dasara procession.
indefinite curfew was clamped on jahajpur after clashes during dasara processions left 21 people, including 13 policemen, injured. several shops and a tractor were set on fire before the curfew was imposed.
this  worst-ever expression of communal divide in mp  broke out after crackers were burst at the rear-end of a nearly 30000 strong barawafat procession. this triggered off a stampede and there were clashes between the two communities. country bombs, pistols and other weapons were freely used and there were more than a hundred cases of arson.in spite of the curfew, violence continued on a smaller scale the next day   there were arson and stabbing incidents in which 12+ people were injured. fresh cases were reported on the 16th : 20 transport godowns, 50 shops, 100s of motor vehicles and a two-storey building were set on fire during these riots. two places of worship were also damaged.unofficial estimates of the number dead are 30. two deaths were repoted on the 18th as violence continued.on the 18th, 4 top indore officials were transferred. these were: mr. sk sood (indore divisional commissioner) mr. bhagirath prasad (district collector) mr. br luthra (inspector general of police) mr. sk raut (superintendent of police)the transfer of mr. sood was later stayed. mr. vora ordered a judicial probe into the rioting.
the communal clashes at nagpur followed the traditional pattern of demanding the switching off of loudspeakers near a place of worship at the time of offering prayers. there were some cases of arson which would have spread further had mr. pathania not arrived on the scene and controlled the situation. the situation was generally peaceful the next day althougha group clash was mentioned. curfew continued for the second day.
the police fired a round in the air, made a lathi charge and used tear gas shells to disperse two clashing groups when a religious procession was been taken through the town. indefinite curfew was clamped in the town after 1 person was killed and some others, including 4 policemen, were injured.
widespread violence occured in ladlun after a religious procession was stoned. the dsp and the sub-divisional magistrate were among the injured.
mr arya said that communal clashes occured in sitamarhi, gaya and darbhanga over taking out of ramshila processions. sice the processionists inevitably carried weapons and raised provocative slogans, this led to hindu-muslim rioting. the police opened fire in this town to quell mobs.the injured figures are a total for all the three towns of sitamarhi, gaya and darbhanga and have been listed here. a later report (oct 25) tells us that rioting in sitamarhi was sparked off by a quarrel stemming from previous enmity.
mr arya said that communal clashes occured in sitamarhi, gaya and darbhanga over taking out ramshila processions. since the processionists inevitably carried weapons and raised provocative slogans, this led to hindu-muslim rioting. the police opened fire in this town to quell mobs.the injured figures available are a total for all the three towns of sitamarhi, gaya and darbhanga and have been listed under the sitamarhi entry.
mr arya said that communal clashes occured in sitamarhi, gaya and darbhanga over taking out ramshila processions. since the processionists inevitably carried weapons and raised provocative slogans, this led to hindu-muslim rioting.the injured figures available are a total for all the three towns of sitamarhi, gaya and darbhanga and have been listed under the sitamarhi entry.
oct 24: at least 3 persons were killed and 38 injured in mob violence and police firing as fast escalating communal clashes engulfed bhagalpur even as curfew was imposed today.tension built up in the town as a 3000-strong determined mob attempted to black a religious procession.oct 25: the army was out and bihar military police, the bsf and the crpf were deployed with shoot-at-sight orders as the toll touched 19. unconfirmed sources said that ovr a 100 bodies were thrown into the ganga, the entire town was engulfed in smoke as places of worship and shops were set on fire. hoodlums had taken over the town.oct 26: the pm expressed annoyance that a religious procession had been allowed to pass inspite of the recent violence. he rushed to the affected areas. the toll went up to 63 and 7 members of mr. parvez ahmed s ( the town s youth congress president s) family were hacked to death.oct 27: the central govt. sent 39 addl companies of paramilitary forces as the toll rose to 119.oct 28: brought the news that riots spread to rural areas as violence continued in bhagalpur.oct 29 was divali but curfew was still not realxed. the toll rose to 133.november: * ishan did november and i guess his notes would have a lot of information about the bhagalpur riots *.dec 5: there was renewed after 19 decomposed bodies from the riots were recovered and blasts rocked the town as troops took out a flag march in the town.dec 16: with the discovery of 127 skeletons over the past few days, the toll shot up to 396. the army was starting to withdraw now and the situation was said to be improving.
the riots here were a consequence of the very serious rioting in bhagalpur. mr. singh that 15 houses were burnt and 2 people killed.
the riots here were a consequence of the very serious rioting in bhagalpur. mr. singh that a tractor was burnt in rajpur.
the riots here were a consequence of the very serious rioting in bhagalpur. mr. singh that houses had been burnt in the village.
mr. sharma attributed the communal violence in jharia (which merited a very small mention since the indore riots were in the foreground) to rumor-mongering. some mischief makers had spread rumors about communal clashes in different pockets of the town and also in the nearby city of dhanbad, which led to the actual violence.
* ishan did november 1989 these riots are a continuation and i suppose that the cause and precipitating event must be in his notes.during hours of curfew relaxation on nov 30, there were fresh incidents of arson andviolence and a man succumbed to bullet injuries. a team of congress central observers named in officials blamed the bjp for the violence saying that  the victory procession was preplanned to destroy the peaceful atmosphere of the city for political gains .there were no incidents of violence reported in the dec 3 article and a later article tells us that curfew was fully withdrawn on dec 11.
in mahim, according to mr. saraf, some processionists were carrying a  sandal  when some one threw a bottle in their direction. this sparked off a riot leading to an exchange of soda-water bottles and stones. the police resorted to a lathi-charge and burst teargas shells to disperse the crowds.in the afternoon, a large crowd gathered for the namaz. after the prayers, there was more rioting and stone-throwing. there are two versions of the precipitating cause. in one version, some people tore the  chadar  the processionists were carrying to the  dargah  with a sword. the official version is that someone in the procession wiped his sweat and flicked it on to the roadside where it fell on a man standing there.incidents were reported from karpad bazar and lady jamshetji road in mahim also.
toi 3/4/90 trouble beagn when shiv sena and dalit workers attacked each other.
toi 3/14/90 at least 7 killed; more than 24 injuredreported along with clash at nawadah and muzzaffarpur
toi 3/14/90 reported with clash at bakri gulni and nawadah
toi 3/14/90 reported with clash at bakri gulni and muzzaffarpur
toi 3?17/90 police firing and communal violence claimed 3 lives and 4 injuries
toi 4/25/90 hindu munnani was to take out a procession to protest naming of district after muslim leader. meanwhile, number of muslims had gatehred in front of mosque at begampur to prevent procession.
toi 4/7/90 mr. girishbhai patel, president of town unit if vhp, kidnapped and done to death by unidentified group of people.
toi 4/7/90 vhp and bjp workers, while passing by a place of worship, reportedly abused youths waiting nearby.
toi 4/7/90 linked to chain of rioting in state.
toi 4/7/90 stabbing, stone-throwing, large-scale arson and looting; 38 arrested under tada, 200 under rioting charges cm, chimanbhai patel,  did not rule out the possibility of a political motive behind the  chain of riots in the last one month in the state since installation of his govt. within 25 days of the janata dal _bjp coalition ministry, gujrat has witnessed as many  as 136 communal clashes which have claimed 13 lives and left 75 injured.
toi 4/7/90 chain of violent incidents in gujrat report linked to ahmadabad riotsreaction to violence in patan
toi 4/19/90 rumour at domkal on apr. 10 of hindu being kidnapped rumor on 13 apr of muslim youth missing apr 8-- peace committee negitiations fell through-- clash at meeting venue*should  rumour  be included as precip event
toi  4/21/90 accident involved motorcyclist and bicyclist-- two belonged to rival gangs of local dadas.
600 people attacked the bombay-ferozepur janata express by which bjp volunteers were travelling to participate in the  kashmir bachao  rally in new delhi on 5/2/90.patel tried to scare the mob away. minority leaders alleged that a bjp worker had looted a  sherbat  vendor s shop. toi 5/5/90.
residents tried to chase an unidentified person who had stabbed a youth on 5/3/90. toi 5/4/90.
2trucks were set ablaze. toi 5/10/90.
20 shops were gutted in the main market and a car set ablaze. toi 6/29/90.
the group clash occurred 70 kms from balasore. police pickets were posted. toi 8/31/90.
the clash occurred at triplicane when miscreants sought to disturb a procession for the ganpathi idol s immersion ceremony. the police opened fire when they were attacked. many policemen were hurt and shops and vehicles set ablaze. toi 9/3/90.
trouble started when processionists tried to divert the route of a procession. toi 9/3/90.
trouble arose after a quarrel between members of rival communities who were gambling. a petrol bunk, a saw mill and 50 huts besides other property were damaged by miscreants. toi 9/4/90.
the town was placed under curfew after group clashes at a religious procession. 16 shops were damaged on the 2nd day. toi 9/5/90.
clashes occurred during ganpati procession. toi 9/5/90.reported with baroda and anand clashes.
clashes occurred between groups at mogalwada. curfew was imposed and over 80 shops burnt on the 2nd day. toi 9/5/90linked to anand and surat clashes on 9/4/90.
7 shops were burnt as violence spread to ankleshwar from anand. toi 9/6/90.
police had to open fire to disperse a violent mob involved in stone-throwing at a ganpathi immersion procession. toi 9/6/90.
processionists were pelted with stones from a place of worship. this was reported with the incident at patur on 9/5/90. toi 9/6/90.
members of one community threw stones at business establishments owned by members of another community. police pickets were posted. toi 9/15/90.
this is a renewal of violence that had started in the area from 9/4/90. there was stone-throwing at chabur and junagadi mohallas at panigate. toi 9/15/90.
the group clash and police firing occurred at a procession in gudhri bazaar area. toi 9/23/90.
the police dispersed a stone throwing mob near panigate. nobody was injured. toi 9/25/90.
the police dispersed arioting mobs near mandavi area. rioting started when a group of people came out of a place of worship and stoned some shops. toi 9/29/90.
property worth lakhs of rupees was destroyed in communal clashes. curfew was imposed. toi 10/2/90
this was a continuation of the violence reported at gonda on 10/1/90.
this was related to the violence in gonda on 10/1/90.
this was related to the violence in the rest of gujarat.
a total of 4 were killed at pande chowra and kuthia. toi 10/3/90.
a 20 year old college student was attacked on 10/3/90. a place of worship, a car and a bakery were damaged on the 2nd day. toi 10/5/90.
lorries returning from an id-e-milad procession were stoned in front of a mosque by people from fishermen s colony. trouble spread to bandra and to khar and jogeshwari areas in the western suburbs. an irate mob set fire to a temple but this was successfully put out. toi 10/4/90.
curfew continued for 2 days after group clashes. 1 person was killed in police firing. toi 10/5/90.
eve-teasing of a girl of one community by boys of another sparked off riots. 80 houses and sshops were destroyed. toi 10/5/90.
indefinite curfew was imposed after the police fired to quell violent mobs. toi 10/5/90.
mobs ransacked several shops and damaged welcome arches set up for the shri ram jyoti processionin kamal gali. lathi charge was resorted to and curfew was imposed. the procession was called off. toi 10/5/90.
clashes occurred following rumours that the district president of the vhp had been kidnapped by members of another community. toi 10/6/90.
riots erupted when processionists were prevented from attacking a place of worship. sixty shops and many vehicles were set ablaze. all ram janambhoomi processions were banned. toi 10/7/90.
on the second day , four people were stabbed in sporadic incidents of arson, violence and looting. shops and houses were set ablaze, and a mob of over 500 violated curfew to attack a place of worship. toi 10/10/90.
three men were stabbed during a power failure which allowed rioters to elude the police. toi 10/10/90
the communal violence in karnataka spread to ullal where two people were hurt in group clashes. toi 10/11/90.
the police opened fire on a clash of two communities. toi 10/11/90.
indefinite curfew was on at doranda area following communal violence. toi 10/12/90.
3 people were injured in communal clashes in bettageri, karnataka on 10/11/90.violence was also reported from kodagu district after 10 houses were set ablaze at tannirhalla. toi 10/12/90.
the toll in communal clashes in karnataka following the ayodhya incident rose to 48. toi 10/12/90.the total number of people arrested in the state crossed 1000. toi 10/13/90.
two people were killed in police firing and one was stabbed. this incident was reported along with the incident at karipparambu in kerala on october 17th. toi 10/18/90.
protest demonstrations over the killing of a  mukhri  at a mosque in kattoor in thrussor districts led to violence. stone throwing and damage to buses were reported. toi 10/18/90.
riots broke out when a person threw a bucket of water on a man of another community who, along with others, was trying to put out a fire at a hut in azad nagar colony in dharavi. toi 10/21/90.
several were injured in clashes following the arrest of bjp president, l.k.advani in bihar. kalupur and dariapur in the state were placed under curfew. toi 10/24/90.

the 5 deaths reported from karnataka were the result of communal clashes and police firing .toi 10/25/90.
the number of casualties were not known. the town was put under curfew. police firing resulted in at least 3 being hurt and over 100 were taken into preventive custody following violence in the wake of the bharat bandh call to protest against advani s arrest. toi 10/25/90.
the total bandh toll rose to 59, according to the toi edition of 10/26/90. trouble was reported from rajasthan, karnataka, j&k, gujarat and orissa - but not all were cases of communal clashes.
several were injured in group clashes following the bharat bandh called to protest against advani s arrest. toi 10/26/90.
the toll in communal clashes in w.b. following advani s arrest rose to 15.trouble arose at jhalda when a motor-cyclist ran over a person of another community.the bandh total for the whole nation reached 82, but a break-up into communal clashes and police-demonstrator clashes is impossibla from the reports.
chittagong was put under curfew as hindu temples were attacked by hindu fundamentalists as a sequel to the kar-seva attempt at ayodhya. the jamaat-e-islami brought out processions in dhaka in protest against communal incidents in india. toi 11/1/90.
the people were injured in stabbing, stoning, firing and acid-throwing incidents. toi 11/1/90.
1 person was killed at halimni khadi in shahpur and a printing press set ablaze. the police had to fire 7 rounds and lob tear gas shells to disperse them. toi 11/1/90.curfew was reimposed after relaxation led to further violence. toi 11/3/90.the toll in gujarat rose to 56. toi 11/4/90.
people belonging to different communities clashed in this textile city. police firing killed at leasr 4. 3 policemen were among the injured when a police chowki was attacked. godhra was put under curfew. this brought the total deathe in gujarat to 34 over io/31/90 and 10/30/90. toi 11/1/90.
those arrested included the bjp city unit vice-president, vasant desai and 3 councillors of the party. police burst 30 shells to disperse mobs involved in arson and looting. toi 11/1/90.no figures for casualties were found.
this brought the total deaths in the gujarat clashes related to ayodhya to 41. on 11/1/90, a total of 8 were killed in the state. toi 11/2/90.
police fired to disperse two groups who were indulging in arson, road-blocking and looting. toi 11/2/90.
curfew was imposed following group clashes. curfew was also imposed at dahod following large scale arson and looting. toi 11/2/90.
dhaka was put under curfew as violence from chittagong spread. shops belonging to the minority community were looted. toi 11/2/90.
arson , looting and bomb explosions were reported. toi 11/2/90.on 11/2/90, rival drug smuggling gangs of 2 communities clashed and the police had to resort to firing. toi 11/3/90.
1 person was killed in a clash followin damage to a place of worship. indefinite curfew was imposed. toi 11/2/90.further violence was reported on 11/3/90.
following these clashes, 30 districts in eastern u.p. was put under curfew. toi 11/2/90.
this brought the total in u.p. following the ayodhya incident to 53. toi 11/3/90.
indefinite curfew following stray incident continued even on the 4th day.
over 100 bjp workers were among those arrested. a total of 11 people were killed since 10/29/90. violence was also reported from the ranga reddy district. toi 11/2/90.curfew was extended after 2 deaths on 11/2/90. more violence was reported from ranga reddy. toi 11/3/90.
sporadic incidents were reported even after curfew was imposed. toi 11/2/90.
8 people of 2 families were killed by a 100-strong mob. this brought the total deaths in gujarat following the kar-seva to 53. toi 11/3/90.
shoot-at-sight orders were issued. toi 11/3/90.according to the toi edition of 11/19/90, the total deaths had been 23, injured 20 and arrests 710.
the police opened fire when members of 2 communities clashed. toi 11/3/90.

rioting continued in gujarat. while baroda and ahmedabad were peaceful, rajpipla was put under curfew after arson and looting. toi 11/4/90.
a total of 20 were killed in the entire country in riots on 11/3/90. toi 11/4/90.
at least seven people were stabbed to death. toi 11/4/90.
the beating up of a youth over a previous quarrel led to retaliation from residents of an adjoining chawl. lathi charge and police firing injured 13. toi 11/4/90.

a total of 2 lives were claimed in ayodhya related violence on 11/9/90. toi 11/10/90.
police patrolling intensified in indore. toi 11/10/90.
trouble started when a large number of people gherao-ed the police station, demanding the release of a person arrested in connection with the attack on places of worship near harba on 6th november. group clashes and police firing occurred. toi 11/10/90.
rumours that a sadhbhavna yatra procession had been stoned at its termination point at idgah led to violence in the walled city. toi 11/15/90.3 communities were involved. police fired to disperse the mob. on the 2nd day, members of 2 communities stoned each other. violence occurred at sadar bazar and the police fired 25 rounds. toi 11/16/90.
group clashes and brickbatting happened at laria. 2 houses were set ablaze. toi 11/18/90.
several were injured and 20 houses burnt amidst arson and looting. curfew was imposed and troops called out. this was after the last communal clash in the town on 10/24/90 in the wake of developments relating to the babri-masjid - ram-janambhoomi controversy. toi 11/19/90.
curfew was imposed. the police said that the motive behind the violence was not known. toi 12/1/90.
in a renewed outbreak of violence, 2 people were stabbed in nawa bazaar and 1 person set on fire in champaner barwaza. curfew was imposed. toi 12/2/90.
tension had been prevailing due to a scheduled public meeting by bjp mp ms. uma bharati. 60 shops and houses were gutted and indefinite curfew imposed. toi 12/6/90.
1 person was killed in a renewal of rioting that started with a mob looting and burning shops. the army staged a flag march at godhra where 5 people had died in riots last week. 2 shops were set ablaze and police had to fire and burst tear gas shells to disperse rioters. toi 12/6/90.
on 12/7/90, 15 people wer killed and 45 injured as group clashes erupted at sabzimandi. violence spread even after curfew was imposed. toi 12/8/90.further violence was reported and 27 people were killed in stabbing incidents. large scale arson and looting was reported. toi 12/9/90.12 people were killed and 25 injured on the 3rd day, and the army was called in. curfew was extended to 32 police stations. at least 59 were killed in the 3 days. toi 12/10/90.as the toll since the start of the orgy of violence reached 121 on 12/13/90, the chief minister, mr. channa reddy, was reported to be  on his way out . toi 12/14/90.5 people were killed as violence spread to the new city, bringing the total sincr 12/7/90 to 132. toi 12/16/90.no final figures for those arrested and injured were found.
violence was sparked off when people coming out of a place of worship attacked a pac picket. an explosion that damaged the exterior of a place of worship led to tension in badaun. toi 12/9/90.at least 130 people, including 11 policemen were hurt.toi 12/10/90.the official toll was 37 though the unofficial was over 65. violence was triggered off by reports that patients at jawaharlal nehru medical college hospital had been killed. according to reports, an attempt to rape a 35 year old widow had some role in starting the violence. toi 12/11/90.indefinite curfew continued at aligarh. a total of 9 were killed here and at kanpur on 12/11/90. the total official death toll was 46 - the unofficial figure was higher. toi 12/12/90.4 people were killed on 12/12/90 putting the official toll at 51 - though unofficially it was 70. toi 12/13/90.the violence spread to nearby areas. toi 12/14/90.the total deaths was reported in toi 12/20/90. 17 people were killed in bulandshahr. a total of 126 were killed in up in communal riots and police firing.
violence was sparked off when people coming out of a place of worship attacked a pac picket. an explosion that damaged the exterior of a place of worship led to tension in badaun. toi 12/9/90.at least 130 people, including 11 policemen were hurt.toi 12/10/90.the official toll was 37 though the unofficial was over 65. violence was triggered off by reports that patients at jawaharlal nehru medical college hospital had been killed. according to reports, an attempt to rape a 35 year old widow had some role in starting the violence. toi 12/11/90.indefinite curfew continued at aligarh. a total of 9 were killed here and at kanpur on 12/11/90. the total official death toll was 46 - the unofficial figure was higher. toi 12/12/90.4 people were killed on 12/12/90 putting the official toll at 51 - though unofficially it was 70. toi 12/13/90.the violence spread to nearby areas. toi 12/14/90.the total deaths was reported in toi 12/20/90. 17 people were killed in bulandshahr. a total of 126 were killed in up in communal riots and police firing.
29 people were killed on 12/16/90 and over 200 hurt in communal clashes. over 1000 had been arrested so far. toi 12/17/90.a fresh burst of violence in which 4 were killed and 21 injured was reported. toi 12/19/90.5 people were stabbed on 12/19/90. curfew was imposed in godhra. trouble spread to shahpur, bapunagar and vejalpur. a total of 37 were killed in ahmedabad, baroda and palanpur. that is the figure given above. this was available from toi 12/20/90. no final figures for arrests and injury cases were found.
trouble started when businessmen opened their shop in a locality and miscreants removed some articles from the shop and set them ablaze. i person was killed and 10 injured. toi 12/11/90.troops conducted a flag march. curfew continued. toi 12/12/90.over 300 had been arrested when reports came in. toi 12/13/90.the final figures for those injured and arrested were not available. the number of deaths were reported in toi 12/20/90.
communal violence spread to meerut and varanasi in u.p. - bringing the total number of districts affected in the current riots to 6. toi 12/14/90.
curfew was imposed as rioting spread. no untoward incident was reported from kanpur and aligarh - but this brought the totalin the up riots to 97. this is the unofficial estimate. toi 12/15/90.
a dispute between 2 communities over taking out a procession of urns containing ashes of kar-sevaks killed in ayodhya police firing set off riots. 2 were injured at tajganj and 1 at loha mandi. toi 12/15/90.
the police opened fire on clashing groups of 2 communities. toi 12/17/90.7 more deaths were reported and the total in u.p. in the recent violence reached 130. toi 12/19/90.
fresh violence broke out in puranagar under the sikadrarao police station. no untoward incident was reported from any other riot hit town. toi 12/26/90.
stabbing incidents were reported. this was linked to the violence in the city in december 1990. curfew was imposed. toi 1/5/91.
trouble started when miscreants started stone throwing. group clashes followed and police firing killed 1 and injured 2. toi 1/7/91.
violence was also reported from gomtipur. this was a fresh burst of communal violence in gujarat. curfew was imposed. toi 1/8/91.all figures are from toi 1/8/91.
the violence in gujarat spread to baroda. police firing and 10 stabbing incidents were reported. toi 1/8/91.
the incidents in agra and rampur were reported together. a total of 1 death and 6 injury cases were reported. toi 1/11/91.
this was reported with the violence in rampur on 1/10/91 in toi 1/11/91. a mob attacked a house in tulsi ka chaturba and 3 were hurt. 54 arrests were reported . toi 1/11/91.
curfew was imposed after rioting in jogeshwari area. toi 1/28/91.police firing on mobs killed 4 . 2 others were stabbed and 43 injured . over 50 were arrested. toi 1/29/91.the toll rose to 7. toi 1/30/91.the toll was reported to be 8 in toi 2/7/91. no final figures for arrests and injuries were reported.
trouble began when armed hooligans fired from qureshi mohalla. at least 9 were killed. the police launched a major offensive on rioters. toi 2/2/91.
this was related to the violence in gujarat on 3/1/91. toi 3/2/91.
this was related to the violence in gujarat on 3/1/91. toi 3/2/91.
this was related to the violence in gujarat on 3/1/91.toi 3/2/91.
related to violence in gujarat on 3/1/91. toi 3/2/91.
related to violence in gujarat on 3/1/91. toi 3/2/91.
a total of 12 were hurt in holi-related violence in gujarat. toi 3/2/91.possibly  visnagar  town 1306
several were injured after communal clashes erupted following a dispute over land near a masjid. toi 3/8/91.
1 person was killed on 3/24/91 when clashes broke out at a ramnavami procession organized by the vhp and rss. 20 policemen were among those hurt. the toll rose to 8 on 3/26/91, and violence spread to cuttack and dhenkenal districts. violence was reported from govindpur, vasudevpur and randia. toi 3/27/91.the toll rose to 11. violence continued in spite of curfew. toi 3/28/91.the situation was peaceful on 3/28/91. toi 3/29/91.the last toll reported was 15 in toi 4/1/91.the person in charge of bhadrak police station was transferred. a total of 21 were killed in soro and bhadrak. toi 4/23/91.
official sources said27 were hurt. violence broke out when a hindu procession raised provacative slogans near a mosque. toi 3/29/91.a total of 9 were killed in this incident. hari krishan (dm) and niranjan lal (asp) were suspended. toi 4/1/91.
this was a spread of violence from bhadrak.the police fired on rioting mobs during the bjp sponsored orissa bandh. toi 3/29/91.a total of 50 had been arrested in bhadrak and soro. toi 4/1/91.the person in charge of soro police station was transferred. toi 4/23/91.
at least 6 were injured. violence was also reported from broach town. toi 3/31/91.
a place of worship was set on fire. a timber godown and many kiosks were damaged in rioting and arson. toi 4/8/91.
violence and police firing injured 25. toi 4/18/91.
a place of worship was damaged and 1 stabbed. toi 4/22/91.1 stabbing was reported. toi 4/23/91.this was associated with the violence in gujarat in the last week of april. 2 had been killed and 10 hurt till 4/24/91. 6 had been arrested. toi4/25/91.curfew was on. group clashes claimed 2 lives. toi 4/26/91.stray incidents of violence were reported from surat and ankleshwar.4 people were hurt in surat. toi 4/27/91.no final figures for casualties were found.
9 were killed and 11 hurt in violence. police fired on communal clashes. 15 were arrested. toi 4/25/91.police firing and arson was reported. 50 had been arrested so far. toi 4/26/91.4 were hurt in police firing.toi 4/27/91.the toll rose to 10 with 1 more stabbed. the total number of injured was 179. toi 4/29/91.the final toll was 12. toi 5/3/91.no final figures for those arrested and injured could be found.
this was related to the violence in surat and baroda. figures are from toi 4/29/91.
clashes broke out after 1 person was killed in a dispute. toi 5/4/91.
a clash between 2 youths resulted in communal clashes 17 kms. from khargone. 5 were burnt alive and over 115 shops, kiosks and houses were damaged. toi 5/18/91.
the political quarrel soon turned into a communal clash with stone-throwing. the police resorted to a lathi charge. toi 5/20/91.
violence was sparked off when the campaign procession of a bjp candidate was attacked. curfew was imposed. toi 5/20/91.curfew was relaxed only on 5/26/91. on 5/27/91, the riot hit areas were calm.it is not too clear how many days riots went on. the casualties were reported in toi 5/27/91.
on a day marked by poll violence in bihar, u.p.,w.b., and a.p., communal clashes claimed at least 20 lives in meerut. toi 5/21/91.meerut was reported to be peaceful in toi 5/27/91. curfew was relaxed for the first time after its imposition on 5/20/91. the casualties are from toi 5/28/91. several were injured.it is not clear how long the violence continued.
violence erupted at khandak locality when a local trader was shot by unidentified people. toi 6/13/91.
2 muslim youths - one of them allegedly having illicit relations with a hindu girl - were killed by a mob. the senior police officers had tried to suppress the communal nature of the incident at first. toi 6/26/91.
indefinite curfew was imposed after communal clashes erupted. the police fired and lobbed tear gas shells to disperse the clashing groups. at least 16 were hurt. toi 6/29/91.
5 people were killed in police firing and 2 were stabbed. at least 15 were hurt. curfew was imposed. toi 7/24/91.
clashes were also reported at chandanpatti of darbhanga district - but this seems to a case of intra-muslim clashes. toi 7/24/91.
the muslim community had agreed to remove the pandal erected in the middle of a road as part of the id milad celebration to allow a ganesh idol procession to pass. however, when the procession arrived, youths refused to do so and police intervention followed. the ganesh idol was immersed under tight security. toi 9/24/91.
at least 20 were hurt in police firing and stabbing during the ganesh immersion ceremony. one homeguard jawan was killed. toi 9/24/91.
this was reported along with the violence at jalpaiguri district on 10/16/91 in toi 10/17/91.
this was reported with the violence at nadia on 10/16/91. in all, at least 2 people were killed and 7 hurt in mob violence and police firing. toi 10/17/91.
at least 40 were injured on 10/20/91. curfew was imposed following group clashes during a durga puja immersion procession. toi 10/21/91.renewed clashes were reported during relaxation of curfew. 1 person was hurt in police firing. many anti-social elements were arrested. toi 10/22/91.
the police fired one round in the air after a baton charge failed to disperse a violent mob that had disrupted a procession of goddess sharada. toi 10/21/91.
toi 11/23/91 6 days of rioting reported from 11/8 to 11/13- however, situation still  tense but under control  on 11/22.all figures of killed and injured refer to 6 days from 11/8 to 11/13. clashes between 2 communities broke out following an accidental injury to a person of another community from fire crackers let off during the procession toi 11/23 and 11/10-- coufew imposed on 11/8- gradually relaxed from 11/11- violence erupted again on 11/13.
the violence started when 2 people were stabbed when the curfew was relaxed. it was originally imposed following a fight over property on 1/1
the police imposed a curfew in the city that was relaxed upto 9 p.m. was reimposed following the reports of stone-throwing in retaliation to 2 miscreants throwing burning rags on a house. police firing and teargas shells had to be used to disperse the mobs
the rioting apparently started when the police tried to move 1 community s place of worship to the place of worship of another. police firing killed 4 people on the spot
the report was quite perfunctory - it merely told of the army staging a flag march after the casualties occurred
the fight started when a muslim man asked a hindu for a bidi. soon, the entire village was fighting
the violence took the form of stabbing and a 12 hr curfew was clamped upon the city after reports of deaths came in. shoot at sight orders were issued on 4/12 trouble broke out at belgaum when festivals of two communities almost coincided on april 5 and 6. the stabbing of a youth while returning from the cinema, let looses and orgy of violence which resulted in inumerable persons being stabbed... april 12
there was apparently conflict between two religious groups over a single place for the celebrations of their respective festivals. two places of worship were gutted in the process along with some shops
the violence began with a quarrel over a shop and got out of control soon when the crowd swelled to a 1,000 people who took the opportunity to stone throw, brickbat, etc.
the incidents of stabbing and arson broke out after the beating of the car driver of shiv sena mla mr. khaire. official statements hinted that the cause of the violence were attempts by the shiv sena to enhance its support and image
the violence startd when a mob returning from the funeral of one person who had died the previous day turned violent and resorted to stone-throwing and arson. curfew was clamped indefinitely followig these incidents
the report was insufficient: it merely said that one rival group battled another; that it was an incident of caste violence
 ahmedabad, july 4five more people were killed in arson and stabbing today as violence spread to surat, baroda, rajkot, sidhpur, morvi and dholka towns when a gujarat bandh called by the vishwa hindu parishad to protest against the alleged attack on the rath yatra was observed in the state....one more person was stabbed to death near the curfew bound sidhpur town this afternoon. late last night, one person was stabbed to death in the town. incidents of stabbing were also reported from morvi and dholka towns....one person was stabbed to death in surat where tension was created in the morning because of some incidents of stone-throwing and bjp leaders forcing the shopkeepers to down shutters. toi july 5, 1992
 ahmedabad, july 4five more people were killed in arson and stabbing today as violence spread to surat, baroda, rajkot, sidhpur, morvi and dholka towns when a gujarat bandh called by the vishwa hindu parishad to protest against the alleged attack on the rath yatra was observed in the state....one more person was stabbed to death near the curfew bound sidhpur town this afternoon. late last night, one person was stabbed to death in the town. incidents of stabbing were also reported from morvi and dholka towns....one person was stabbed to death in surat where tension was created in the morning because of some incidents of stone-throwing and bjp leaders forcing the shopkeepers to down shutters. toi july 5, 1992
 ahmedabad, july 4five more people were killed in arson and stabbing today as violence spread to surat, baroda, rajkot, sidhpur, morvi and dholka towns when a gujarat bandh called by the vishwa hindu parishad to protest against the alleged attack on the rath yatra was observed in the state....one more person was stabbed to death near the curfew bound sidhpur town this afternoon. late last night, one person was stabbed to death in the town. incidents of stabbing were also reported from morvi and dholka towns....one person was stabbed to death in surat where tension was created in the morning because of some incidents of stone-throwing and bjp leaders forcing the shopkeepers to down shutters. toi july 5, 1992deesa reference on july 8th report
the police opened fire when two communities clashed. in addition to those injured, 8 houses were wrecked. the fight started when one boy tried to hurt another with whom he had had some previous skirmish
the violence was caused by a group of wotkers burning the body of beggar in a labor colony of the bapunagar labor area. police were forced to open fire to disperse the mob. curfew was still in place ahmedabad, july 2at least seven people, including a crpf jawan, were killed and more than 110 injured in police firing, stabbing, stone throwing and group clashes today as large-scale violence broke out in the city on the occasion of the rath yatra, forcing the police to clamp curfew on the two communally sensitive areas of shahpur and dariapur this evening....tension was developing in the dariapur locality right from midnight yesterday because of a clash between the police and a gang of bootleggers, who were caught transporting liquor in a truck. toi july 3, 1992 ahmedabad, july 4five more people were killed in arson and stabbing today as violence spread to surat, baroda, rajkot, sidhpur, morvi and dholka towns when a gujarat bandh called by the vishwa hindu parishad to protest against the alleged attack on the rath yatra was observed in the state....one more person was stabbed to death near the curfew bound sidhpur town this afternoon. late last night, one person was stabbed to death in the town. incidents of stabbing were also reported from morvi and dholka towns....one person was stabbed to death in surat where tension was created in the morning because of some incidents of stone-throwing and bjp leaders forcing the shopkeepers to down shutters. toi july 5, 1992
there was no report of the riot itself. however, we know that there definitely was a riot since a statement was issued by the state jd president, mr. pawar (not sharad), that the communal riots wwre caused by hindutva agitation, the muslims had little to do with it, and that  the jd was confident that the statue of chhatrapati shivaji at sangli was not desecrated by a muslim. 
the fight nroke out at a movie theatre two groups began fighting over the purchase movie tickets. a fisherman was stabbed and the violence escalated from there
 prohibitory orders under section 144 have been clamped in belgaum city up to monday 6 a.m., following a homeguard being stabbed last midnight and a clash between tow groups this morning, reports toins. the police resorted to a lathi charge on friday morning to disperse the rioting groups. according to the inspector-general of police (law and order), mr. t. madiyal, in bangalore, two cases of assault with sticks and stone-pelting were reported in belgaum on friday morning. the incidents followed the tension that prevailed since thursday night after a homeguard was stabbed following misunderstandings that a pandal and some shop property was burnt by two groups. the fires were later found to be accidental. toi sept 12, 1992
the violnce started between two groups of people following a quarrel between two boys. police had to burst 11 teargas shells to disperse the mob and no one was killed
the police were forced to open fire to dispersea mob demanding that sub-divisional status be granted to sonebarsa
the troubolr apparently began when a durga puja procession was passing through the streets and forced its way into a prohibited route
police opened fire on a mob demanding that a cbi, rather thana a cod probe be made into the murder of a local advocate (gangadharamurthy). villagers were supposed to be going to attend a political rally in support of chief minister (karnataka) bangarappa. the buses provided to transport the villagers were completely gutted in the violence
surat was the worst affected city in gujarat. 2 police inspectors and 2 sub-inspectors were suspended for failing to act at the appropriate time in the surat riots
one of the sporadic incidents of violence that marred a relative lull in the communal violence following the destruction of the mosque at ayodhya. the reports for each individual riot are a little tough to discern from the articles around this time since they provide aggregate death figures rather than those from a particular incident - perhaps their definition of a riot does not correspond to ours, or they are interested merely in aggregative reporting
 in jaipur the army was deployed and an indefinite curfew clamped in the walled city areas and shastrinagar localities as violence erupted necessitating police firing in the death of 22 persons and injuries to 61 today.  toi dec 8, 1992
unlike surat, there were sporadic incidents of violence with lower tolls in terms of human lives as compared to surat. the death toll in the recent violence in the state rose to 291 last night when three persons were killed and 23 injured in police firing, stabbing and stone throwing in ahmedabad. with this the toll in the violence in ahmedabad rose to 58. the army moved in all the affected areas of the city and carried out intensive patrolling. 
 the rest of maharashtra was comparatively calm though sporadic violence broke out at half a dozen places, taking the death toll to 28, resulting from firing at 21 places, officials said....firing took place at solapur, malegaon, parbhani, udgir, buldana and nanded. at malegaon, three people died in police firing. toi dec 9
 the rest of maharashtra was comparatively calm though sporadic violence broke out at half a dozen places, taking the death toll to 28, resulting from firing at 21 places, officials said....firing took place at solapur, malegaon, parbhani, udgir, buldana and nanded. at malegaon, three people died in police firing. toi dec 9
 the rest of maharashtra was comparatively calm though sporadic violence broke out at half a dozen places, taking the death toll to 28, resulting from firing at 21 places, officials said....firing took place at solapur, malegaon, parbhani, udgir, buldana and nanded. at malegaon, three people died in police firing. toi dec 9
 the rest of maharashtra was comparatively calm though sporadic violence broke out at half a dozen places, taking the death toll to 28, resulting from firing at 21 places, officials said....firing took place at solapur, malegaon, parbhani, udgir, buldana and nanded. at malegaon, three people died in police firing. toi dec 9
 the rest of maharashtra was comparatively calm though sporadic violence broke out at half a dozen places, taking the death toll to 28, resulting from firing at 21 places, officials said....firing took place at solapur, malegaon, parbhani, udgir, buldana and nanded. at malegaon, three people died in police firing. toi dec 9
 the rest of maharashtra was comparatively calm though sporadic violence broke out at half a dozen places, taking the death toll to 28, resulting from firing at 21 places, officials said....firing took place at solapur, malegaon, parbhani, udgir, buldana and nanded. at malegaon, three people died in police firing. toi dec 9
sushil chandra verma's dec 5th 1993 (bhopal mp) statement to ls during debate on governor's rule , drawing on governor's report: the 3rd letter of december 13 [1992] says that the death toll in group clashes and police firing in various parts of the state reached 125 on the 13th morning.it was a subsiding the break up of the deaths as distributed among different cities was bhopal was leading with 100, ujjaiin with 9 which is a very sensitive area.) khargon with 9, burhanpur with five no incident at jabalpur, indore, neemach, etc which are very sensitive otherwise. on the night of 11th december, police had to resort to firing in khargon to control clashes between two groups. all the actions that were possible were being taken by the state government. one \saf jawan was killed in govindpuri a locality in bhopal. the army had surrounded the areas and combing up operations were imdertaken. 1954 rioters were arrested till 12th decemberthe governor himself explains all these steps that were taken by the state government. \the army raided the farm house at about six kilometers from bhopal on raisen road. the arnny was alertand active it arrested a number of persons and recovered a fargequantity of arms and ammunition. according to eye witness account narrated by the press, the miscreants exchanged fire with the army in which some ofthem were killed. it was all pre- planned. http://alfa.nic.in/lsdeb/ls10/ses6/1612059301.htm downloaded march 14 2003.
unlike surat, there were sporadic incidents of violence with lower tolls in terms of human lives as compared to surat. the death toll in the recent violence in the state rose to 291 last night when three persons were killed and 23 injured in police firing, stabbing and stone throwing in ahmedabad. with this the toll in the violence in ahmedabad rose to 58. the army moved in all the affected areas of the city and carried out intensive patrolling. estimate of 69 deaths arrived add by subtracting surat and ahmedabad from state totals
sushil chandra verma's dec 5th 1993 (bhopal mp) statement to ls during debate on governor's rule , drawing on governor's report: the 3rd letter of december 13 [1992] says that the death toll in group clashes and police firing in various parts of the state reached 125 on the 13th morning.it was a subsiding the break up of the deaths as distributed among different cities was bhopal was leading with 100, ujjaiin with 9 which is a very sensitive area.) khargon with 9, burhanpur with five no incident at jabalpur, indore, neemach, etc which are very sensitive otherwise. on the night of 11th december, police had to resort to firing in khargon to control clashes between two groups. all the actions that were possible were being taken by the state government. one \saf jawan was killed in govindpuri a locality in bhopal. the army had surrounded the areas and combing up operations were imdertaken. 1954 rioters were arrested till 12th decemberthe governor himself explains all these steps that were taken by the state government. \the army raided the farm house at about six kilometers from bhopal on raisen road. the arnny was alertand active it arrested a number of persons and recovered a fargequantity of arms and ammunition. according to eye witness account narrated by the press, the miscreants exchanged fire with the army in which some ofthem were killed. it was all pre- planned. http://alfa.nic.in/lsdeb/ls10/ses6/1612059301.htm downloaded march 14 2003.
sushil chandra verma's dec 5th 1993 (bhopal mp) statement to ls during debate on governor's rule , drawing on governor's report: the 3rd letter of december 13 [1992] says that the death toll in group clashes and police firing in various parts of the state reached 125 on the 13th morning.it was a subsiding the break up of the deaths as distributed among different cities was bhopal was leading with 100, ujjaiin with 9 which is a very sensitive area.) khargon with 9, burhanpur with five no incident at jabalpur, indore, neemach, etc which are very sensitive otherwise. on the night of 11th december, police had to resort to firing in khargon to control clashes between two groups. all the actions that were possible were being taken by the state government. one \saf jawan was killed in govindpuri a locality in bhopal. the army had surrounded the areas and combing up operations were imdertaken. 1954 rioters were arrested till 12th decemberthe governor himself explains all these steps that were taken by the state government. \the army raided the farm house at about six kilometers from bhopal on raisen road. the arnny was alertand active it arrested a number of persons and recovered a fargequantity of arms and ammunition. according to eye witness account narrated by the press, the miscreants exchanged fire with the army in which some ofthem were killed. it was all pre- planned. http://alfa.nic.in/lsdeb/ls10/ses6/1612059301.htm downloaded march 14 2003.
unlike surat, there were sporadic incidents of violence with lower tolls in terms of human lives as compared to surat. the death toll in the recent violence in the state rose to 291 last night when three persons were killed and 23 injured in police firing, stabbing and stone throwing in ahmedabad. with this the toll in the violence in ahmedabad rose to 58. the army moved in all the affected areas of the city and carried out intensive patrolling. estimate of 69 deaths arrived add by subtracting surat and ahmedabad from state totals
unlike surat, there were sporadic incidents of violence with lower tolls in terms of human lives as compared to surat. the death toll in the recent violence in the state rose to 291 last night when three persons were killed and 23 injured in police firing, stabbing and stone throwing in ahmedabad. with this the toll in the violence in ahmedabad rose to 58. the army moved in all the affected areas of the city and carried out intensive patrolling. estimate of 69 deaths arrived add by subtracting surat and ahmedabad from state totals
 seven people were killed -three each in hyderabad and madanapalle - in police firing and stabbing incidents today, taking the death toll in violence in andhra pradesh state to 17 with the state capital accounting for 13.  dec 9
 seven people were killed -three each in hyderabad and madanapalle - in police firing and stabbing incidents today, taking the death toll in violence in andhra pradesh state to 17 with the state capital accounting for 13.  dec 9
policemen were among the casualties. no public statement was made by officials as to a particular community being the target of the violence but since these were incidents of violence following the demolition of the mosques and complemented by similar violence in other cities in the country, there is little doubt that these were in fact, hindu-muslimcommunal riots  bombay, dec 11. no deaths due to police firing were reported today in the city for the first time since monday, though the toll in the communal riots that rocked bombay rose to 145, unofficial sources put the total at 202. dec 12 bombay, december 31: the post-ayodhya disturbances in the state claimed 264 lives, redered 1,842 injured and over 11,400 homeless. the dead included 202 from bombay....in riot related case, almost 6,000 people were arrested, 410 of them from bombay  jan 1
 a 48-hour curfew was clamped in cuttack city in orissa after clashes broke out in the baxibazar area forcing the police to fire in the air to quell violence....in assam 30 people were killed, 18 of them being burnt alive dec 9
 a 48-hour curfew was clamped in cuttack city in orissa after clashes broke out in the baxibazar area forcing the police to fire in the air to quell violence....in assam 30 people were killed, 18 of them being burnt alive dec 9
many of these dies in police firing
 six people were killed in bihar since last night, as the toll rose to 19 today. five people were killed in forbesganj by violenct mobs. dec 12
 six people were killed in bihar since last night, as the toll rose to 19 today. five people were killed in forbesganj by violenct mobs. dec 12 with the killing of two persons since last night and recovery of six more bodies, the death toll in the state rose to 40, according to the home secreatry, mr. j. l. arya. dec 15

two deaths in gulbarga and one each in mangalore and mysore have taken the toll to 59. dec 12
two deaths in gulbarga and one each in mangalore and mysore have taken the toll to 59. dec 12
two deaths in gulbarga and one each in mangalore and mysore have taken the toll to 59. dec 12
two deaths in gulbarga and one each in mangalore and mysore have taken the toll to 59. dec 12
two deaths in gulbarga and one each in mangalore and mysore have taken the toll to 59. dec 12
two deaths in gulbarga and one each in mangalore and mysore have taken the toll to 59. dec 12
two deaths in gulbarga and one each in mangalore and mysore have taken the toll to 59. dec 12
 six people were killed in bihar since last night, as the toll rose to 19 today. five people were killed in forbesganj by violenct mobs. dec 12 with the killing of two persons since last night and recovery of six more bodies, the death toll in the state rose to 40, according to the home secreatry, mr. j. l. arya. dec 15
 six people were killed in bihar since last night, as the toll rose to 19 today. five people were killed in forbesganj by violenct mobs. dec 12 with the killing of two persons since last night and recovery of six more bodies, the death toll in the state rose to 40, according to the home secreatry, mr. j. l. arya. dec 15
 six people were killed in bihar since last night, as the toll rose to 19 today. five people were killed in forbesganj by violenct mobs. dec 12 with the killing of two persons since last night and recovery of six more bodies, the death toll in the state rose to 40, according to the home secreatry, mr. j. l. arya. dec 15
 six people were killed in bihar since last night, as the toll rose to 19 today. five people were killed in forbesganj by violenct mobs. dec 12 with the killing of two persons since last night and recovery of six more bodies, the death toll in the state rose to 40, according to the home secreatry, mr. j. l. arya. dec 15
 a 48-hour curfew was clamped in cuttack city in orissa after clashes broke out in the baxibazar area forcing the police to fire in the air to quell violence....in assam 30 people were killed, 18 of them being burnt alive dec 9
 a 48-hour curfew was clamped in cuttack city in orissa after clashes broke out in the baxibazar area forcing the police to fire in the air to quell violence....in assam 30 people were killed, 18 of them being burnt alive dec 9
 a 48-hour curfew was clamped in cuttack city in orissa after clashes broke out in the baxibazar area forcing the police to fire in the air to quell violence....in assam 30 people were killed, 18 of them being burnt alive dec 9
 a 48-hour curfew was clamped in cuttack city in orissa after clashes broke out in the baxibazar area forcing the police to fire in the air to quell violence....in assam 30 people were killed, 18 of them being burnt alive dec 9
 a 48-hour curfew was clamped in cuttack city in orissa after clashes broke out in the baxibazar area forcing the police to fire in the air to quell violence....in assam 30 people were killed, 18 of them being burnt alive dec 9
many of the casualties were people that died in police firings to contain crowds. following the reports of major violence one reort that appeared in the toi on 12/19, stated that there were still incidents of protest that were contained relatively peacefully
many of the casualties were people that died in police firings to contain crowds. following the reports of major violence one reort that appeared in the toi on 12/19, stated that there were still incidents of protest that were contained relatively peacefullytotal is arrived at by subtracting kanpur total from state total of 201
curfew has been relaxed...as normalcy returned to the city which witnessed an outbreak of violence following the ayodhya incident. dec 16
the incidents were varied with 2 deaths by police firing in mysore, 2 were clubbed to death in mandya, 1 succumbed to injuries from a previous riot in dharwad.
the violence erupted upon demolition of babri masjid. of the 107 casualties, 47 were killed by police firing, the rest by frenzied mobs. 
60,000 devotees tried to enter the temple adjoining the mosque. the entire complex had been cordoned off following the babri masjid demolition. the police haad to lathi charge to stop them from entering the complex
the aibmac had assembled a crowd at a rally; the mob broke a police cordon and tried to advance to the disputed site to offer a symbolic namaz
the first day of violence was precipitated by an incident of eve teasing; the violence on the following day was sparked by an altercation between two members from different communities. the report does not specify which two communities or the nature of the quarrel but iven the itming of the incident, there is a strong likelihood that it was hindu-muslim communal violence

 besides kanpur, stepped-up incidents of arson, stabbing, group clashes were reported from varanasi, rampur and ghaziabad. 
 besides kanpur, stepped-up incidents of arson, stabbing, group clashes were reported from varanasi, rampur and ghaziabad. 
 besides kanpur, stepped-up incidents of arson, stabbing, group clashes were reported from varanasi, rampur and ghaziabad. 
no people were reported dead, a mob 300 people strong had gathered in defiance of an imposed curfew this takes the total of dead in rioting and rioting-related incidents to 482, 168 of whome are registered by the bmc s hospitals alone. jan 13 the toll since the riots began on january 6 is 536, according to figures from the coroner and city hsopitals. toi jan 14 at a consevative estimate, over 557 people were killed during the riots that rocked the city for almost a fortnight from january 5, according to the independent investihgation conducted by this paper s correspondent. however the police commissioner, mr. s.k. bapat, places the death toll at the significantly lower figure of 458. jan 23
these wee styay incidents that marked the reduction of violence and the return of peace/normalcy
another incident of violence in the aftermath of the babri masjid demolition. half of the city was placed under curfew, while the other half observed a bjp called bundh.
jan 12....communal clashes broke out between two communities. four persons were stabbed. the trouble started when the students of the akhil bharatiya vidyarthi parishad (abvp) while observing vivekanad jayanti, displayed the photograph of swami vivekanand at one side and a picture of the broken babri masjid on the other. 13th jan
these wee styay incidents that marked the reduction of violence and the return of peace/normalcy
police fired into mobs to quell rioting after mobs stoned two places of worship. it is unspecified what religious denomination the places of worship belonged to
curfew was reimposed following this fresh outburst of violence; nio further information was provided in the reportage
rumors of desecration of a religious place sparked off the riot. in the older part of delhi, the initial incident had a sread effect and soon, the rioting mob and their area of looting/arson expanded
stones were allegedly thrown while 2 aartis were being conducted. upon conclusion of the aartis, a mob of 500 went on a rampage of revenge.
the army was given orders to fire if necessary to contain outbursts of commmunal violence.
the 4 people killed were apparently meo leaders belonging to the congress. the area was a muslim majority one and apparently the cause of the fighting was differences between the head of the biradari pancayaat and his advfersary, a janata dal mp. an mla by the naame of khan said that he was dissatisfied with the holding of 55 people by the police for questioning regarding the incident
three key police officers were transferred: commissioner (bapat), j. commissioner (tyagi), & addnl. commissioner (khan).the violence took the various forms of arson, street fighting, etc. there was a great deal of indignation expressed by affected people whose primary complaint was that the police failed to do enough to prevent or contain the riots
curfew was reimposed following this fresh outburst of violence; nio further information was provided in the reportage
the riot broke out when drunken guests at a wedding desecrated an idol and a temple. seven arrsts had been made under tada.
police fired into mobs to quell rioting after mobs stoned two places of worship. it is unspecified what religious denomination the places of worship belonged to

the report was very sketchy, it failed to provide much information
the army performed flag marches when several incidents of violence are reported to have happened. 94 bodies were identified but police predicted that the eventual number of casualties might turn out to be 130. an article dated 5/8/93v specifically stated that the violence in manipur was not communal in nature. rather, it was sevceral factors that were responsible including ethnic, religious and economic.
the report was insufficient: it merely said thta one rival group battled another, the nature of the group divisions was not disclosed
of the thriteen people injured, 3 were policemen nd all of them resulted from police firing to diperse a mob. the cause of outbreak of the violence waas unreported
 three persons, including a woman, were killed and 15 injured, 11 seriously, in a fresh outbreak of communal violence at bhatkal in karnataka s uttara kannada district on monday night... june 23
a college lecturer was shot dead and violence and communal rioting ensued. but, there is nothing to warrant a claim that this riot was hindu-muslim in nature
the violence was described as being different from that which occurred in april 1992. more information is necessary to ascertain what exactly that means.
muharram processionists traveliing on a train were attacked by another community (unspecified)
it appears that the agitation was cpm vs ipf. the report called it post-poll violence
charges were filed against 60 more for stone throwing. toi 7/9/93.
charges were filed against 60 more for stone throwing. toi 7/9/93.
the police opened fire to quell the clash. toi 7/10/93.
the police opened fire to quell the clash. toi 7/10/93.
trouble started when people attacked a student of their own community for taking training from a teacher of another community. toi 8/23/93.previously, communal violence had occurred at bhatkal before july,1993. nishit is doing that part.
trouble started when people attacked a student of their own community for taking training from a teacher of another community. toi 8/23/93.previously, communal violence had occurred at bhatkal before july,1993. nishit is doing that part.

toi, delhi edn. 2/28/94. violence erupted in babri township (ayodhya??) when a person was arrested for disrupting a prayer meeting (presumably muslim) by playing loud music. a mob then proceeded to stone the local police station and shoot at members of the other community.
toi delhi edn, 2/28/94. the article merely says  communal clash . no reference to h-m violence speicifically.
toi delhi edn, 6/22/94. could be either h-m or intra-m. several vehicles, rialway mail services, central railway station and police station damaged by moharram procession after rumours that two pagis had been arrested.
toi-delhi edn, 8/14/94, 8/15/94, 8/16/94. city placed under curfew when bjp adamant over flag hoisting at disputed site of idgah maidan. a crowd of over 5000 had to be quelled by lathi-charge, tear gas and eventually police firing. curfew lifted after 57 hours.
toi delhi edn, 8/20/94, 8/21/94. a ksrp personnel opened fire in self-defense at an approaching crowd, killing a woman. this death sent bjp crowds into an anti-police frenzy, leading to incidents of arson and violence. curfew was again imposed on the city which was laden with tension after the independence day riots. the policeman responsible for the killing was arrested to appease the mobs.
toi delhi edition, 8/22/94. arson and violence prompted in connection with tension in hubli, curfew imposed in bhadravati.
toi delhi edition, 10/8/94, 10/9/94, 10/10/94, 10/11/94. widespread, violent protests against urdu news telecast on bangalore dd. despite elaborate police arrangements and curfews, controlling mobs was difficult. several localized, sporadic bursts of killings.
toi delhi edition, 10/11/94. rajagopal stabbed to death on his doorstep by five men. in response, there were a few incidents of violence reported in madras, madurai, coimbatore adn tirupati.
toi delhi edition, 12/26/94. disagreement over cricket match outcome turned violent. crowds joined in the clash between the two teams. crude bombs used. police had to fire to disperse crowds.
toi delhi edition, 2/6/95. police fired three rounds to disperse a crowd of 200 protesting over the news leakage to the police of an animal sacrifice at a local temple.
toi delhi edn, 2/11/95, 2/12/95. 2/13/95. violence broke out in response to a murder of bjp leader mr. kala baccha. people prevented from prayers in public during the curfew following attacks from a temple.
toi delhi edition, 2/14/95. demonstrations and marches on the eight anniversary of the opening of the disputed babri mosque. 200 people detained in hyderabad.
toi delhi edition 3/26/95. functionaries of a shrine began construction on nearby land and were attacked by irate villagers. police had to resort to lathi charge and firing. curfew clamped in nanded.
toi delhi, 4/16/95. one person died in a bomb blast in a hindu munani s office. many sporadic incidents after the blast. the munani called for a bandh, but the call was ignored.
toi delhi, 5/7/95. raf deployed after clash between two rival student groups. 3 students injured in clashes where countrymade firearms were used.
toi delhi edition, 8/1/95. police lathi charged vhp procession as it tried to reach the shringar gauri temple behind the gyanvpi mosque for jalabhishek of the temple diety. the temple administration ruled out the jalabhishek. the subsequent clashes between the police and the vhp led to pitchers of gangajal thrown at the mosque.
﻿8 more killed in AhmedabadThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jul 21, 1985; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1The ! Times of India News ServiceAhmedabad, July 20.COMMUNAL violence con-finued unabated in different parts, of the city today, in which at least eight lives were lost and 22 hurt in police firing, bing and bomb blasts. ie current wave or violence r the withdrawal of the army i the city last-Tuesday has so far taken a toll of 22 lives, including eight yesterday.Apparently; the withdrawal of the five-month-old anti-reservation agitation j by the akhil Gujarat vali mahamandal and the navrachana samj i on Thursday had little effect on the dements bent upon perpetrating communal trouble in the trouble-tom state '	,Tc day’s dead included a doctor and a go\ ernment servant who were knifed to de ith by unidentified assailants. The doctor was returning home from Jamilpur’s Pagathia locality around noor. A peon with the revenue tribunal was done to death around the same time in the busy Dhalgarwad area near Gandhi Road.In the morning, one rickshaw-driver was stabbed to death in Nagoriwad local ty at Shahpur. This was followed by ah armed clash for over four hours between two groups of people.Tie police opened fir at Shahpur, whet a mob attacked them, killing one sersc n and injuring five others. Four Jerscns were stabbed to death at Shahpur, Lai Darwaja, Gomtipur andjamaipur. une person, wno was au-mitted to the municipal Shardaben Hospital with stab injuries from Bapunagar area yesterday, succumbed to his injuries today.Violence was also reported in the labour-dominated Rakhial-Bapunagar area. One person received a pellet injury near the Vivekanand Mills, while another person received a knife injury. Two persons were stabbed near Rentiawadi at Mirzapur. Four were hurt, two each in bomb blasts and stabbing in the Nagoriwad-Shahpur ireas.' There was a stray case of attempted irson at Gomtipur but it was foiled by [he timely arrival of the police patrol. The police today recovered fourSunday Review is being issued as an eight-page poll-out with this edition.lighly explosive devices, called deton-nor 38, from a godown in the grain narket at Kalupur during the combing iperations.The city police have so far rounded ip nearly 80 people from different >arts of the city in connection with riplence during the last three days.According to authoritative sources, ive deaths and seven injury cases were eported in the V.S. Hospital, two leaths and six cases of injury in the ,.G. Hospital, and one death and two ases of stabbing in'the Shardaben lospital.While the communal violence did lot affect business activity much dur-ing the last two days, today it create a panic among traders in the affecte areas, especially the main market a Manekchowk, where they downed th shutters early.However, no violence was reportei in the curfew-bound Dariapur-Kalupu area today, not even during the four ti five hours’ relaxation period. On thi other hand; the other curfew-bouh< areas of Rakhial and Bapunagar wen the scene of bloody group clashes fo several hours since late last night.BARODA CURFEW RELAXEDPTI adds: Curfew was relaxed it Baroda for 17 hours while in the Choti Udepur town of Baroda district curfew was relaxed for 16 hours.Some minor cases of stone-throwinj were reported from the Raopura anc the Mahatma Gandhi Road localities in Baroda today and the police arrestee ibout 20 persons in this connection.In Surat, the police fired one rounc o disperse two groups throwing stone: md soda-water bottles at each other in he Navsari Bazaar area yesterday. Nc >ne was reported injured in the firing,Nearly a hundred persons were ounded up. by the police in Vhmedabad in connection with the ncidents during the last three days, ifficial sources said.Mr. Ribeiro told UNI that he reviewed the situation with senior police ifiicials today and later decided to brm; 15 special squads of policemen to ombat the violence and in particular, he incidents of stabbings.No untoward incident was reported rom the rest of Gujarat today, the state oiice control here said.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿7 die in Bihar Holi violenceThe Times of India (J86J-current); Mar 14, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of Indiapg. 327	die in Bihar Holi violenceThe Times of India News ServicePATNA, March 13: At least seven people were killed in violent incidents during Holi celebrations at Nawadah and Muzaffarpur on Sunday.According to official sources, a clash took place between two communities at Barki Gulni village about 23 kiometres from Nawadah when a group of Holi revellers were attacked by another group at a religious place.The police had to open fire to disperse the warning groups. More than 24 pople were injured in the clash.Machines salvaged from burning rigAG ARTALA, Mar. 13 (PTI): Drilling engineers and explosive experts of the Oil and Natural Gas Commission today managed to salvage some valuable machines from the burning rig at Tichna in west Tripura which caught fire yesterday following a gas leak last Thursday, an ONGC spokesman here said.However, the rig tower, and some other drilling equipment could not be recovered and might be destroyed in the fire, he said. The 2,268-foot well, which leaked during drilling, would also have to be abandoned, he said.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Ahmedabad firing claims 2 livesThe Times of India (1861-current); Dec 10, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Ahmedabad firing claims . 2 livesAHMEDABAD, Dec. 9 (PTI): At least two persons were killed and seven others injured, five in police firing, in the sensitive Dariapur area of the city this afternoon, forcing the authorities to clamp indefinite curfew; there..One of the dead was brought to the hospital, while another person, in-: jured in police firing, was declared dead, hospital sources said.The trouble started after a scuffle i between police and a group of youths.Police burst teargas shells and fired half a dozen rounds to disperse grops. of people indulging in violence. I One of the injured was reported to be serious.Two cops were reported to have received injured in the violence.The situation in the disturbed area was said to be under control buttense.	. , . .	■Baroda: The indefinite curfew,1 which was reimposed in Padra taluka town of Baroda district yesterday, following two stabbing incidents,' continued today without any relaxa-J tion.	1Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Reds closing in on Pnom PenhThe Times of India (J86J-current); Mar 10, 1974; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 5Reds closing in on Pnom PenhPNOM PENH, March .9: fighting flared up in six places this morning around the beleaguered Cambodian capital.On route four, west of Pnom Penh, the Khmer-Rogue, are closing in on the city, and fresh clashes are reported from along route one and the Mekong river south-east of the capital, “Ceteka” reports.The port of Kampot is: under mortar fire from the liberation ' forces which are also attacking the positions of President Lon Nol’s troops north and east of the town, now facing an acute shortage of food and water.Meanwhile, three Cambodian army brigade commanders were found guilty today of retreating from battle without orders from the high com-: mand, military'sources said.The cases of three other officers facing similar charges were still being investigated, the sources said.—UNI & UP1.Hong Kong : North Viet Nam and Algeria have condemned the United States and South Viet Nam for violations of the Paris peace agreement and demanded that the U.S, government stop its aggression in Cambodia.The two countries voiced their condemnation and demand in a joint communique issued yesterday at the end of the four-day official visit to North Viet Nam of the Algerian President, C’ol, Houari Boumedienne.—UPI.	.Communal clash in Jam,mu: 24 heldJAMMU, March 9: Twenty-four people were ; held today on the charge of disturbing the peace follow^ ing a clash between the members of two communities here last1 night.Shots were fired during the clash, injuring three people. .	_A government press release said six people, including three policemen, were injured. .The chief, minister, Syed Mir Qasim, appealed for peace.—P.T.l.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Violence spreads in MeerutThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jul 4, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1LtfCKNO^ July 3.THE situation iri •Meerut has JL assumed alarming proportions Respite the deployment of tie triny and the imposition Of curfew >h three-fourths.of the city^ withho tnll	fhe toll in?;lesl>:vio|ehce-since!»»-• J'._t*“-	••wmstvajr.	a*A.	....i Today, a cyclist,.aged 40, who was accompanied ^aloy^w^’stab^ tc death by a group of a dozen people ai Multan Nagar in the Transport Nagai area. The bOy was ^so inflicted witli knife jnjuries, dragged away and dump ed in a well. ■ ■;	^ -p\.An elderly womanartd h$$l-y^« old son, who received gun #6ts atthi densely populated LaTdas-feiiSerai/iti the Delhi Gate area yesterday, died after admission to the Medical College Hospital. -	^	> '/; Arson incidents were reported from Delhi road, Kaisarganj, Malidna railway-crossing and Lisadi gate. A.dry-cleaner’s shop was set on fire near theBhagpat bus-stand. . „ .	.Acts of arson and firing occurredafter the curfew relaxation hours yesterday. The authorities have since withdrawn the relaxation during the day, which was'allowed following anshops and other establishments open. Bifcservice&were also resumed ip the area!/ ' X.;- •		.Twelve companies of the State Reserve. Police and, twb of the Border Home Guards are keeping vigil in all the sensitive areas of tftP city.GOFEPOSAtennexjtehi^d•NEW DELHI, July.3 (UNI): The provision for detention of persons under COFEPOSA for two years in certain, ^highly vulnerable-areas' has been extended for thrde more years up to the ond of July, 1990.	'/i Slhnce' th^ maximum damage to the national economy is caused by smug* glefs operating in the highly vulnerable area?, the, longerperiod of detention, under section 9,:tif the smugglers their associates and their links had proved a good deterrent. *	•It is in this context that the provision, which was to expire at the ;nd of July this year, has been extended up toJuly 31,1990, through a presiden-lial. ordinance, according to a press release issued today.The ‘highly vulnerable areas’ are lefined as the ‘Indian customs waters,’'Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Twelve killed in Bihar riotsThe Times of India (J86J-current); Oct 24, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Twelve killed in Bihar riotsPATNA, October 23 (PT1): At least 12 people were killed and 24 injured in communal riots in Bihar, reports reaching here said today. .The home secretary, Mr J.L. Afya, however, confirmed only ten deaths.He said eight persons were killed at Sitamarhi and one each at Darbhanga and Gaya yesterday.Reports of two more deaths at Sitamarhi were yet to be confirmed.The police opened fire at Sitamarhi and Gaya to quell m6bs, Mr Arya said.UNI adds: He said clashes occurred between two groups over taking out a religious procession.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Riot-hit Pune under curfewOur Special CorrespondentThe Times of India (1861-current); Feb 16, 1982; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Riot- hit PuneBy Our Special CorrespondentPUNE, February 15, fpHE police burst teargas shells ; and made lathi-charges several times to disperse stone-throwing mobs that collected in front of a place of worship in the Ravivarpet area of Pune today.The situation in the city was tense with mobs throwing stones at vehicles, including municipal buses and shops throughout the day.The police commissioner has clamped curfew on the riot-hit area which falls in the Khadakvasla, Farashkhana and Samarth police stations. 1	,Today’s trouble was a continuation of yesterday’s incident of anson. The trouble started yesterday when the tail.	. 1 . . i !Five persons were injured when the police opened fire in Sola-pur this evening to disperse a stone-throwing mob in Tilak Chowk area, even. as a dusk-to-dawn curfew was clamped in the town following violence in the wake of “Jana-jagran abhiyan” processions of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad. .end of a 50,000-strong “Hindu unity march” procession organised by the Vishwa Hindu Parishad, was allegedly attacked with stones; The processionists, it is further alleged, changed the route on their own a'J resorted tc 6tone-throwing arid buifang of hotels in the Deccan Gymkhana area. Three vehicles were also set on fife and the damage wris estimated at Rs. 6 lakhs, according to police sources.The police had to burst teargas shells at least three times yesterday evening.This morning, groups of people started' collecting, defying prohibitory orders under Section 144. The police moved in to disperse the mobs when they were subjected to heavy stonethrowing. As a result, 36 police offi-Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.cials and constables sustained injuries.PTI & UNI add: Strong contingents of police patrolled the troubled areas of the city and riot squads guarded among other places of worship affected in last night’s arson.The police burst tear-gas shells at one place and made cane-charges at several points in the eastern part of the city to disperse violent mobs who indulged in stone-throwing and beating up passer-by.Meanwhile, the police arrested 17 people in connection with yesterday’s orgy of violence and arson in which three restaurants were set on fire and scores of shops damaged in stonethrowing incidents..The situation in Pune city and the nearby tehsil town of Baramati, the scene of violence during the last threedays, was officially claimed to be under control but tense this morning.The city police control spoke of sporadic stone-throwing' incidents in the vicinity of Satranjiwalla and Son-yamaruti Chowk areas on Laxmi Road.The “Hindu Ekata Andolan” (HEA), whose volunteers had joined the “Abhiyan” yesterday, expressed dissatisfaction over, the manner in which the procession was conducted by the Vishwa Hindu Parishad.Their leader, Mr. Dhanjay Jagtap, told a press conference here this morn-Continued on Page 7 Column 5Many hotels in the Deccan Gymkhana area were burnt down in the riots lit Pune on Sunday. Atright Mr. S. M. Joshi is inspecting the damage.Pune mob is tear-gassedContinued from Page 1 Column 8ing that he would dissociate in future from any “Hindu unity” programmes sponsored by the parisliad or any other organisation.Yesterday’s violence during the procession had tarnished the fair image of HEA which, he claimed, was syno-nimous with national unity .and was not against members of any other religion.	IHEA volunteers would' jealously guard places of worship and hotels in the trouble-prone areas of Pune city without taking the law into their hands, he said.The general secretary of. the Pune Muslim League, Mirza Hanlmed Baig, has demanded a court of inquiry into the incidents, assistance to those whose property was looted or damaged by miscreants and arrest of the miscreants. ,	_Meanwhile, the police is collecting data regarding the damage caused to property in the violence.. The entire Pune district, including Pune city, is currently under a ban on unlawful assembly.	ISchpols in trouble-prone areas were closed for the day and, students were asked to go home.The police took into custody about 100 people and arrested. 17 others for stone-throwing till this evening.As many, as 36 police officers and constables were linjured during the incidents since yesterday, the police commissioner said. ’The movement of vehicles, in the trouble-prone Nana, Bhavani and Ga-nesh Peth areas of the city has 'been restricted. :	;	- .	. .. iReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Bhatkal violence organised: ministerThe Times of India Newe ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jun 25, 1993; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 7Bhatkal violence organised: ministerThe Times of India News ServiceKARWAR, June 24: The eruption of fresh communal violence at Bhatkal, in Uttar Kannada district on June 20, which claimed five lives and injured 16 others, was different from the ones which occurred in April last, according to Karnataka's minister for adult education, Mr Prabhakar Rane,Speaking to newsmen here on Wednesday, Mr Rane said the violence was systematic and with predetermined targets. He felt there might be some formidable forces behind the clashes.He assured the people that a thorough investigation would be made into the violence and miscreants would be rounded up. Thesituation would not be allowed to be politicised, he said and added that those indulging in spreading rumours would Be punished.Mr S.N.S. Murthy, director general of police, who was present at the press conference, said the citizens' committees would be strengthened and provocative elements” booked under the law.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Shiv Sainiks held on rioting chargeOur Staff ReportersThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 2, 1974; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 3CITY & SUBURBSBy Our Staff ReportersTHE Mulund police ai rested 15 people, 11 of them Shiv Sainiks'. on cross-complaints' of rioting on Monday. The four others were said to be former Shiv Sainiks.	.The police said that previous cji ■ mity between the two groups led u the rioting in which three peonli ■ ■were injured, the groups used aerat ed water bottles and iron bars Among the arrested were two sliakht pramukhs.The city police also arrested 5'. people from Sun Mill Lane ot charges of rioting in which a Gana pad procession and the dwellers o. a chavvl clashed. Two persons sus tained minor injuries.The police also registered a cas< of rioting against nine unidentifiec men who were stated to have t’nrowr aerated water bottles at anothei Ganpati procession on Lamingtot Road. , .Death after injectionA six-year-old girl. Kamini Situ-rem Jadhav, who was given ar injection of streptomycin, collapsec and later died, the Jogeshwari police told the coroner, Mr. H. J. Chinoy on T uesday.	'	. ■	'_ The police took charge of the injection ampoules and the case papei from Dr. Suresh Tendolkar.Passenger murdered ■A 25-year-old passenger in a Bombay-bound train was found murdered on the track between Safala and Kelwa Road station on September 20.The body had knife injuries on the neck and head. Two tickets with the names, S. K. Dube and Ramdutta, written on them were found in the shirt pocket, the police said. The identity of the man has not yet been	established.Police denialThe police said on Tuesday that Shaikh Mubarak Abdul Rahman, 25, an undertrial.	was taken	to	theSion Hospital	on September	26when he complained of breathlessness and vomiting in the lock-up.He was admitted to the hospital and later died there. The coroner's surgeon, w'ho	performed	the	postmortem, certified that he died of toxemia following- purulent meningitis.^ a natural cause of death. The police denied that the undertrial died of beating.* * *All the slaughtering units at the Deonar abattoir will remain dosed on Wednesday for Mahatma Gandhi Jayanti. No fresh meat will, therefore, be available on Thursday in the city markets.Colaba and Santa Crux, recorded no rain on Tuesday. The season's rainfall total is 2.310.8 nun., 611.9 mm. above normal, at Colaba and1.939.8	mm.. 555.5 nun. below normal, at Santa Cruz.The maximum temperature at Colaba on Tuesday was 32 degrees. C. a degree above normal, the minimum 25 degrees C., two degrees above normal, and the relative humidity was 80 per cent, at5.30	p.m.	’The maximum temperature at Santa Cruz was 31 degrees C. two degrees below normal, the minimum.-25 degrees C., two degrees above normal, and the relative humidity was 80 per cent, at 5.30 p.m.Mr. A. V. B. Mudaliar, until recently deputy commissioner of police, Nagpur, superintendent, railway police, Nagpur, and commandant, State Reserve Police, Jalna, Aurangabad district, has taken over as deputy commissioner of police (armed force), Bombay,The weatherBombay city and suburbs will have cloudy skies on Wednesday, Thunder-clouds are likely to develop towards the night.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Rioting And Arson In Yadgir: Five KilledThe Times of India (J86J-current); Mar 26, 1950; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew is imposed on MeerutThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jan 29, 1968; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1® MEERUT, January 28A 12-HOURcurfew, ending al 8 a.m. tomorrow, was clamped on parts of Meeriii city and cantonement area, following an attack of anti-Sheiki; Abdullah 'demonstrators, arsoi and cases of assault.The police. made lathi 'charges and fired several rounds of tear-gas shells to disperse violent crowds at several points in the city.	■About 30 people belonging to both the communities received , injuries, sc^me of whom1 were. admitted to the ■hospital. .	'	•	.A press note issued by the district magistrate, Mr. S. T. Watal, late in the night described the situation as under control;:.. ' /	■'The demonstrators were attacked by hundreds of people armed with lathis and iron bars. Brickbats were ! also thrown on• them. '	]The police fired several rounds of tear-gas to disperse the mob.Two U.P. Government Roadways buses were attacke '^and badly da’ maged. .	... .... , xk-,. .. . -; The trouble started when several , hundreds people of the “Save Kash-■	mir Front”, sponsored by several ) political parties, demonstrated before*	a local intermediate college; where , Sheikh Abdullah was to address a . meeting of the provincial Jampit-ul*[ Ulema, and raised slogans: demanding L Sheikh Abdullah to go. back and also 1 to disclose his nationality. .t Brickbats were thrown on the de-■	monstrators from inside the college.. A jeep fitted with mike, carried bythe demonstrators, was badly damaged.•	When the demonstrators reached■	the main gate of the college, where | the conference of the Jamait was inprogress, hundreds of people armed f with lathis and iron bars attacked : them.—P.T.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew in MhowThe Times of India (J86J-current); Sep 30, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Curfew inMhowINDORE,:September 29 [UNI): An indefinite curfew was imposed in the cantonment town of Mhow, neat here, from 7 p.m. today, following a clash between members of two com* munities. jThe police; superintendent, Mr S. K. Raut, sai<J that one person had suffered a bullet injury and was admitted to a hospital.The trouble started when a Ram Janambhoomi Shila puja procession was being takjen out in the city.Mr Raut said the curfew was imposed following incidents of stonethrowing and lattempts to set on fire shops and hopses.,PIT adds: police sources said the violence brokip out at around 4.30 p.m. when the procession, shouting religious slogftns, was allegedly attacked as it was passing the Subzimandi area,Lucknow: (PIT): The Demolition of the controversial Babri Masjid at Ayodhya will begin on November 12, the president 6f the Indian Muslim Youth Conference, Mr Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, paid today.Mr Naqvi told reporters here that the decision tojdemolish the mosque was firm “and no one can stop this work.” : .He said several members of the “demolition sqhad” were in Ayodhya to assess the situation there and the conference had already finalised the programme for the demolition.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Clash marks temple entry, 8 hurtThe Times of India (1861-current); Aug 11, 1988; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1NATHDWARA (Rajasthani. August 1U . ?tl & UNI).THE police and local residents clashed outside the Nathdwara temple here today, in which eight persons, including a DIG of police, were injured.-----1- ?-— J U.1. .ium;-iuui lUUljOliO WUtOilippCU Uitdeity inside the Srinath (Lord Krishna temple.The clashes started when the Hari jans, mostly local sweepers, were re turning from the temple. The residents who had earlier opposed the hev} police presence in the town, startec throwing stones at them. The polia lathicharged in a bid to disperse the mob.Reports said that soon after the Harijans’ entry, the temple adminiS' tration asked the large number o: policemen deployed at the temple tc vacate the premises to stop “poll ticisation of the issue.The Harijans were given a tra ditional welcome by Rakesh Baba, sor of Takayat (head priest) with “Kanthi Dora” and “Tulsi” leaf.This move of the local citizens and the temple administration came as z surprise to the district authorities and the citizens who had gathered there in thousands. The people were informed of the “pooja” and “darshan” ovei loudspeaker.The temple authorities opened the main door around 7.30 a.m. to let the Harijans inside the temple and soon locked the gate. The Harijans came out of the temple after about 90 minutes, All the shops and other businessestablishments remained closed for the third day today in Nathdwara in response to a bandh call given by the Nathdwara Sangarsh Samiti to protest against the Harijan entry. :UNI adds from New Delhi: The welfare minister, Mrs Rajendra Kumari Bajpai, announced in the Lok Sabha that a group of Harijans entered the Nathdwara temple in Rajasthan around 11 am. this morning.Replying to a short-notice question of the Telugu Desam member, Mr S.M.	Bhattam, she said those who entered the temple were mostly “safai mazdoors” and were received by a son of the head priestThe announcement was received by Congress members with the thumping of desks, while those in the opposition made sarcastic remarks against the Rajasthan governmentThe minister asserted that no un-touchability was being practised, and said, “there is no ban on the entry of scheduled castes into the Nathdwara temple for offering prayers.”Mr Jaipal Reddy said, instead of arresting the Shankaracharya of Puri for declaring a ban of the entry of Harijans into the temple, Swami Agnivesh was arrested recently by the state government while he was leading a people’s march to the temple to protest against the ban.Mrs Bajpai said Swami Aginvesh was not arrested by the state government, “but persuaded to discontinue the march” in view of threats by the people to disturb itReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿TN calm, Meerut, Kanpur peacefulThe Times of India (1861-current); May 27, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 5Madras, May 26 (uni).h^AMIL Nadu has remained incident-free since yesterday, after three days of violence which marred the state in the wake of the assassination of the former Ptyne Minister and Congress president, Mr Rajiv Gandhi near here on Tuesday last.Jhe chief secretaiy, Mr T. V. Antony told newsmen here today that nov major untoward incident was retorted from any part of the state. Pace processions taken out by political parties in the city and districts woe given adequate protection.IHe said strict instructions were isued to deal firmly with persons indulging in unlawful activities. Central government organisations in the state were also requested to tone up their own internal security arrange-mints.A total of 7,040 persons have been arrested. Of this 4,997 persons had bdbn detained as per preventive measures. Nine persons had so far attempted self-immolation, of which fife died while being given treatment. Apart horn this, two suicides were alio reported.Mr Antony said the co-ordination committee to review security arrangements in coastal villages to a ntrol militants’ movement would ta re place on May 28.Replying to a question, he said the state government had no idea about tl e arrival of the inquiry commission hi aded by a supreme court judge to p obe the Sriperumbudur bomb blast ii Which Mr R^jiv Gandhi and 16 ot ters were killed.Ale said that both the special investigation team and the CBI officials were satisfied about the assistance :red to them by the state govem-nt.Mr Antony said baseless rumours by anti-social elements led to iradic incidents in the last few ys, and appealed to the public not i believe in rumours and to ascer-in the correct position from official urces.He sought the co-operation of all ions of society in the continued aintenance of law and order.In Meerut, the situation is fastreturning to normalcy, with day curfew being relaxed in most areas of the city.The law and order situation was reviewed by authorities today.The city had been gripped by violence during poll on May 20 and indefinite curfew was imposed in all the 13 police circles of Meerut city and cantonment.Except Kotwali, Lisari Gate, and Delhi Gate where curfew continued for the seventh day today, day curfew in other parts of the city has been relaxed.During curfew relaxation, the search of people through metal detectors would continue, the additional district magistrate Mr Rajvir Singh said.A special missing persons complaint cell, he said, has also been set up. This cell would furnish information in detail about the persons killed during riots and on those who had been identified.In Kanpur, day curfew was relaxed from 9 a.m. to S p.m. today in all the police circles following improvement in the law and order situation.The curfew was imposed after communal violence erupted in the city on May 18.The police said the situation was fast returning to normal and no untoward incident was reported from anywhere.The police and para-military personnel are patrolling the disturbed areas. Army called out in the wake of communal disturbances had been withdrawn.Four hundred anti-social elements were rounded up and a large quantity of firearms was recovered during house-to-house searches.Eighteen people had been killed and 70 injured so far in communal violence in the citv.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Rourkela Situation Is Better: Trouble ElsewhereThe Times of India (1861-current); Mar 23, 1964; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1BHUBANESWAR, March 22. a and some others had been kept asI stand-by to meet emergency requirements.—P.T.LWHILE the situation in Rour-kela ^ recorded “further improvement'’ today, sporadic incidents of arson and looting took place in Sundargarh, Rajgangpur, Bisra. Birmitrapur and Launga in Sundargarh District of Orissa State, according to official reports.The official death-roll in.Rourkela and suburbs rose to 62 with reports of nine more deaths received today.The military, which has been in full control in Rourkela since yesterday, took control today of the Bisra area adjoining the steel town,TWO ROUNDS FIREDThe reports said there were no incidents in Rourkela today. But the military opened fire in the old town twice at two places, one round on each occasion, to scare away tiouble-makers.No death was reported in the firing.	.“Further relaxation” of tension in Brajrajnagar, Jharsuguda and Sambal-pur was officially reported.The report of one death due to knife injuries on Friday was received from the Jharsuguda police station area outside the town. -This was the lirst death reported from Sambalpur District in the current clashes.A press note issued by the Home Department of the Orissa Government tonight said that the 24-hour curfew, damped on Rourkela town yesterday, was further extended.Patrolling by the army and the police personnel who were, assisting it continued.The press note said that curfew was relaxed at Jharsuguda for lour hours between six and ten this morning.The State Government has however. decided not to relax the curfew in the town tomorrow in view of a case of arson during the relaxation of curfew.HOOLIGANS ARRESTEDThe press note said large-scale arrest of hooligans had been effected in the different affected areas, including 250 in Rourkela town.According to latest official reports, the police tired a total of 21 rounds in Rourkela on Friday night at three places. No death \\as repotted.’’Ihe prC'v note said that ‘'exemplary courage and a sen-e of sacrifice was shown hv the students ol Rourkela Fncineeting t.olleee during the dis-titibances. in gi'.ing .sheltei to . citizens evacuated lot safety horn the affected areas.••I he Suite (•'rovnnment, todav rush-. cd two pkm. loads of milk powdet to. Ronikela fot fh, ;i--e ol the evacuated eui/eii-.I .ilea official tepoti' siul die MtviKih o! the .military in Ro.nke’a v..»s iciniotccd today.	,Oiisvi militaty police petsonne! fan aimed'‘civil police force)', who had been sent to We-t Bengal during rioTs thete. had been ni-heJ back to 'Orissa ■o meet the situation, borne of them had been sent to the disturbed townsReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Tension in Meerut, curfew onThe Times of India (1861-current); Jul 6, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1MEERUT, July 5 (UNI).TENSION flared up in the city this morning following last night’s incident in which a mob set afire a shop in the KishanpUri area, burning the shopkeeper to death.Tne authorities, taking stock of the situation, have decided not to extend the curfew relaxation period.A senior police official said the shopkeeper was Sleeping in his shop when miscreants set it afire.His charred body was recovered after the fire was extinguished.Earlier yesterday, bomb explosions were reported from some areas but no arrests had been made in this connec* tion, a spokesman said.He said the two police stations of Kankarkheda and Pratapur on the outskirts had been brought under the jurisdiction of Meerut city and the 12 police stations in the city were split into four units. Some changes had also been effected in the police set-up, he added.Curfew was fully relaxed in some. areas Railway Road, Pratapur, medical college and Civil Lines.Meanwhile, senior block and district officials this morning reviewed the situation at a joint meeting and decided to intensify the drive against anti-social elements.oday that the situation in Meerut was 'ast returning to normal.In a statement here after a three-day ;tay in Meerut, he said that he had told he local administration to take .tringent measures to curb any further )utbreak of violence.He called on all communities to restore self-confidence and also assured them that those officials who tended to be lax or did not take timely action to prevent recurrence of such incidents ivould be severely dealt with.Lucknow: Tension gripj>ed Aligarh ind Moradabad towns today as a ection of the business community [owned shutters in certain localities irotesting against the detention of the lhahi Imam of the Jama Masjid inoradnagar when he was on his way todeerut yesterday.A cracker-blast near Moradabad cotwali this morning created panic, but to untoward incident was reported, an Jfficial spokesman said.BARODA PEACEFUL (UNI from Baroda): No untoward incidents were reported from any part of the city today, official sources said.The curfew relaxation periods passed off peacefully, the sources said.The authorities have banned the entry into the city of IS Muslim leaders including the Shahi Imam of the Jama Masjid, Mauiana Syed Abdulla Bukhari, and the Balm Masjid action committee chief, Syed Shahbuddin.The army deployment in the city was withdrawn; last night following improvement' in the situation.APPEAL FOR PEACE (PT1 from New Delhi): The Uttar Pradesh home minister Mr Gopinath Dikshit, saidReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿NEW KASHMIR CABINET: DISCUSSIONS REACH ADVANCED STAGEThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Aug 13, 1953; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1NEW KASHMIR CABINETDiscussions Reach Advanced Stage“The Times of India” News ServiceSRINAGAR, August 12.Thfe personnel of the Cabinet of Bakshi Ghulam Mohammed, the new Premier of Jammu and Kashmir, is expected to be announced in a day or two.	iTalks on the composition of the Cabinet reached an advanced stage today. The Premier had prolonged discussions throughout the day with leaders of the National Conference—the party in power—from different parts of the State.According to present indications, the Cabinet will consist of five members—the same strength as the Abdullah Cabinet. At present, there are only two Ministers, following the removal of Sheikh Abdullah and Mirza Afzal Beg.An effort is being made to constitute the Cabinet with men who are completely in agreement with the broad policy enunciated by the Prime Minister in his broadcast on Sunday night.A number of National Conference workers called on the Prime Minister today to assure him of their support to the new Government and its policies.PLAN OF ACTIONTheu were also several meetings luring the day with higher administrative personnel at which the plan of action to tone up the administration and rid it of corruption was discussed.Srinagar was quiet today, though in the old city the hartal continued. There were some(Continued, on page 7, col. 5)Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.THREE KILLED IN FIRINGIncident Near Srinagar(Continued from page 1, col. 3)arrests, including one official. It was confirmed today that there were four deaths from last evening’s firing by the militia on,an unruly mob which had collected near the Juma Masjid in Srinagar.A bus service was inaugurated in the city this morning. A dozen buses operated on three different routes from one end of the city to the other. This restored to some extent the confidence among the public, who, in the complete absence of even tongas on the streets, found movement difficult.SCHOOLS REOPENMost of the schools here will reopen tomorrow after the week-end. Reports from the districts indicated that the situation is now returning to normalcy. Theie was police firing in Anantnag, 35 miles from Srinagar, this, morning and an official spokesman said the crowd indulged in stone-throwing at the police and the militia. The firing resulted in three deaths. The Times of India News Service representative visited Anantnag in the afternoon. The town presented a deserted look, as did some of the villages on the way.There was another incident at Rampur, nine miles from Srinagar. The crowd was lathi-charged and dispersed.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Saigon turned down Lon Nol's requestThe Times of India (J86J-current); Apr 30, 1973; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9Saigon turned down Lon Nol’s requestSAIGON, April 29:	CambodianPresident Lcn Nol appealed to South Viet Nam’s air force for air support when U.S. bombing raids'were halted last week, South Viet Nam’s foreign minister, Mr. Tran Van Lam, disclosed today., Mr. Lam said the appeal was rejected for fern it would upset thepeace negotiations with the PRG.____U.P.I.	.Pnom Penh: A single U.S. air force F 111 swig-wing bomber swept across Pnom Penh on Sunday morn* ing to attack targets about four kilometres east of the capital near the (Mekong river in the first such raid in two days.	'Meanwhile, Cambodia's newlv-created “high political council” officially began business on Sunday, as the country’s top ruling body at a time of intense pressa.j from inrur-gents just outside Pnom Penh.President Lon Nol said on Saturday night in a broadcast over the national radio he would head the four-man council — but he ‘old listeners the decisions of the council would be by majority vote.He did not say whether he would have a final veto.—U.P.I. & A.P.Gaston Thors in DelhiNEW DELHI, April 29: Mr. Gaston Thors, foreign minister * of the Grand Duchy % of Luxembourg, arrived here this morning on a four-day visit to this country.He was received at the airport by the external affairs minister, Mr. Swaran Singh, the secretary (east), Mr. V. C. Trivedi, and the chief of protocol Mr. Mchboob Ahmed.Those present at the airport included the ambassador of Belgium, the Netherlands, Denmark, Italy, Ireland and the EEC countries.—U.N.I.Clashes in KalyanBy A Staff ReporterThe Kalyan .police reported that two rival groups resorted to stone-throwing on Saturday following a clash. No one was injured, the police said. The incident took place near the Urdu School, opposite Durgadi Fort, it was stated.A group of Shiv Sainiks were alleged to have assaulted six tonga drivers in Kalyan, according to the police. One of the tonga drivers had been admitted to a hospital. Two tongas were damaged.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Violence Over UrduThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 30, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 14Violence Over UrduThe disturbances in Badaun district in Uttar Pradesh, in which 12 people had been killed and over 300 injured by Thursday, show the dangers of trying to exploit emotive issues for electoral gains. The conflict, occasioned by the state government’s last-minute move to make Urdu the second official language in U.P., arose when some 300 students of the Islamia College went on a protest march to another college whose students had submitted a memorandum against the proposal to the district magistrate. The potential explosiveness oi a polarisation in the state on communal lines for and against the move should be only too apparent. This was evident in the U.P. vidhan sabha where the amending bill to declare Urdu the second official language precipitated a clash on Thursday as angry BJP members physically tried to prevent it from being tabled. Nothing could be more unfortunate and dangerous than a communal confrontation on the issue, as if Urdu and the official recognition to be accorded to it were only Muslim concerns, with Hindus unremittingly opposed to it. In fact, although more Muslims than Hindus speak the language, it is the common heritage of both. If it has come to be associated predominantly, if not solely, with Muslims, that is because no government has bothered to promote it as an Indian language in its own right, leaving Muslims in the main to agitate for preserving and promoting it.It might be said that recognition as a second language will do much to foster the use of Urdu officially and among the people of the state. Unfortunately, the expediency which has mqtivated the decision could in fact set back greater use and acceptance of the language. Not only is such opportunism wrong in itself, it is also extremely dangerous in the present communally tension-laden atmosphere, both in U.P., as a result of the festering dispute over the Babri Masjid-Ramjanmabhoomi dispute, and in the country at large for a variety of reasons. The U.P. government could at least have struck a via media, as Bihar did in 1980 when Urdu was made the state’s second official language in the 15 districts where it was mainly used. All Mr Tiwari needed to do was to look up the census data, establish where in U.P. Urdu was widely employed and declare it the second official language there, extending the areas covered as and when necessary. Now that he has gone ahead, he will find it difficult to retrace his steps, even partially. His first duty now is to. prevent the conflict in Badaun from spreading. He should then set about giving Urdu its rightful place if his gesture in conferring an elevated status on it is to be more than just a preelection gimmick.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Toll mounts to 111 as violence rages onThe Times of India (1861-current); May 26, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1MEERUT, May 25 (PTI).-THE death roll in the week-long communal violence in the city rose to 111 today as reports of mounting tension came in from neighbouring towns of Ghaziabad Muzaffamagar Modinagar and Hadur.The army was called in Hapur after tension gripped the town following two bomb explosions and curfew, continued without relaxation for the seventh straight day covering more than two-thirds of the population in the city.Thirtyfour bodies were recovered with marks of wounds inflicted by sharp edged weapons from Hindon rivers in Ghaziabad and the Uttar Pradesh government ordered a CID inquiry into it.Security measures have been tightened throughout Muzaffarnagar district with armed police patrolling and the pickets posted at sensitive points.About 150 people were injured and over 2,500 people have arrested in the Meerut alone where army para-military forces are helping the police to quell the violence. The police conducting searches today recovered thirtytwo illicit weapons, 15 acid cans and several knives and daggars confirming the assessment that riots were pre-planned.The additional district magistrate, Mr D S S Yadav, said that the situation was “under control” and no incident had been reported today.Fresh sporadic incidents of violence were also reported today from theoutskirts of Meerut. Cases of stabbing and arson were reported from Maliyan village.The police recovered eight bodies from Maliyan village while seven bodies were recovered from different places in the outskirts.Two bodies were recovered from Zaidi farm in Shastri Nagar.Meanwhile the Uttar Pradesh chief minister, Mr Bir Bhadur Singh, air-dashed to Ghaziabad last night and held meetings with the district authorities.According to the district authorities some people are migrating to Ghaziabad from the riot-hit Meerutcity.Mr Bir Bahadur Singh said curfew would be relaxed in rotation for some hours tomorrow in different localities of the riot-hit Meerut city.Efforts would be made to allow the Muslims to say their Id prayers in Idgah, he said.When asked about the incident in Malyana locality in which seven persons were killed and 19 injured, he said there was a clash between two communities and the police had to inter*Indrajit Gupta and Mr N. E. Balaram said in a joint statementMeerut, they said, was in the grip of “callous, bureaucratic and inefficient” administration.A , seven-member delegation representing different opposition parties in Parliament today left for Meerut to make an on-the-spot study of the situation in the riot-affected areas.The delegation consists 'of- Prof. Madhu Dandavate (Janata), Mr P. Upendra (Telugu Desam), Mr Saifud-din Chaudhary (CPM), Mr N. E. Balaram (CPI), Mr K. P. Unnikrishan (Cong.-§), Mr. Chitta Basu (Forward Bloc) and Mr Rashid Masood (Lok Dal).It was learnt later that the seven opposition M.Ps, who had gone to Meerut for an on-the-spot assessment of the situation were today arrested at Mallyana village for defying curfew regulations, according to Mr Mohammad Yunus Saieem, Lok Dal (A) Header.vene.PASSES DENIED: Meanwhile in Delhi, two CPI MPs said they were denied curfew passes when they visited Meerut on Saturday.“Our queries as to how press reporters were free to go about and publish inflammatory accounts of incidents and casualties while MPs were being discriminated against were not replied to by the district collector,” MrCPI PLAN: The Communist Party (of India today urged the Prime Minister to immediately convene a meeting <of leaders of idfferent parties to consider steps for containing the “communal conflagration” engulfing the en-Itire country.In a letter to the Prime Minister, the CPI general secretary, MrC. Rajeswara IRao, said a united political campaign 'was needed to counter the communal ipoison along with stringent adminis-ttrative measures against the mischief makers.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Solapur riot avet statue desecrationThe Times of India (1861-current); Feb 13, 1983; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Solapur riot ' over statue desecrationSOLAPUR, February 12 rrrwT & pttvITTHE police burst tear-gas shells A and made repeated lathi-char-|ges to disperse a violent mob, which' set fire to scores of shops in the heart of the city today.The mob also burnt a number of jerked vehicles, including a municipal, corporation bus, and indulged in stone-throwing, injuring- at least 35 persons—six of them pblicerpen.The police said over140 people had, been arrested. The situation was brought under control in the: evening by imposing.a ban on assembly, but the atmosphere was still tense.Violence in the ■ city, followed reports of alleged desecration of the statue of Dr. B. R. Anibedkar. : . At least one, driver and a conductor of the city buses were injured, first reports said. Fifteen labourers were injured in a clash outside the S.T. workshop.	4	, ', CONSTABLES SUSPENDED' Two constables who were on duty, near the. statue in Park _ Chowk were suspended for dereliction of duty. Special police was posted in the area to prevent further incidents. A dog squad was also pressed into service to nab the culprits. ,	’	‘The Maharashtra minister for finance and planning,, Mr. Sushilkumar Shinde, who is here, appealed to the people to maintain peace.A literary conference, which was to be inaugurated by the minister-this morning, was postponed, the report said. ' ■.	- ',	. \ i ■ 'Sangli (UNI); Prohibitory orders have been .promulgated here amid communal tension following the replacement of a flag atop a tree at ■ Badam Chowk in the' Khan Bhag area, by a flag of another colour.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿5 killed in Madras group clashThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 2, 1992; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 135	killed in Madrasgroup clashThe Times of India News ServiceMADRAS, September 1: Five persons were killed, two of them when the police opened fire to quell a clash between a group of Burmese repatriates and fishermen at En-nore in North Madras today. Fifteen others were injured, seven of whom have sustained bullet injuries.However, unconfirmed reports put the number of those killed in the clash at five and those killed in the police firing at four.The clash erupted between the two groups last night when they had gone to see a film.A quarrel broke out between the two groups over the purchase of ticket and a fisherman was stabbed. The irate fishermen armed with lethal weapons went to the colony occupied by Burmese repatriates and attacked them.In the riots that broke out, buses were stoned. Reports here said that the mob stopped a bus, pulled out two passengers and stabbed them.This morning violence erupted again leading to the police firing. Ten rounds were fired in which two were killed. The injured have been admitted to G.H. and Stanley Medical Hospitals here.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿STONES THROWN AT POLICEThe Times of India (1861-current); Jan 10, 1953; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1STONES THROWN AT POLICESeven InjuredNear Jammu-------»♦■»-----JAMMU, January 9.Seven police constables were injured when a Praja Parishad procession threw stones at a police party in Budhi village, in Kathua Tehsil, 52 miles from here.The Parishad procession wanted to proceed to the Kathua Panchayats’ Conference, attended by Mirza Mohammed Afzal Beg, the State’s Revenue Minister, and Mr. Girdharilal Dogra, the State’s Finance Minister.The police cordoned the procession at a distance of about half a mile from, the meeting.The processionists then threw stones at the police injuring seven members of the police party.RECOGNITION OFRed chinaLikely Egyptian MoveCAIRO, January 9: Egvot was considering the recognition of Communist China as Dart of her vigorous foreign policy to develop stronger ties with Asian countries, diplomatic sources here said tonight.This step was dictated by both political and economic considerations, the sources added.Besides pursuing a long-term policy of asserting an independent and influential position in international affairs, Egypt’s desire to recognise	CommunistChina is governed by her pressing need to find new markets for her still largely unsold cotton crop.The Egyptian Finance Minister, Dr. Abdel Guelil el Emary, announced recently that an important cotton deal” had been concluded with	CommunistChina.—P.T.I.-Reuter.(See Pane 6)DESTRUCTION of AIRLINER Woman HangedMONTREAL, January 9:	Mrs.Arthur Pitre, 43, was hanged at the Bordeaux jail of Montreal today for her part in the destruction of a Canadian airliner by a timebomb in 1949. She had been sentenced to death for the murder of Mrs. Rita Morel, Guay, one of the 23 persons killed in the airliner on September 9, 1949.Earlier, two men had been executed for killing the pilot which resulted in the destruction of the airliner by a time-bomb while in (light.One wanted to kill his wife, who was aboard the plane, collect10,000	dollars insurance money anil marry a waitress. The other made the bomb.—P.T.I.-Kuuut.The Central Government Is giving a subsidy of three lakhs of rupees to Andhra University, which will be utilised for instituting a professorship in Sanskrit.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew reimposed in JamnagarThe Times of India (J86J-current); Sep 9, 1980; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1Curfew reimposed in JamnagarJAMNAGAR, September 8^{UNT): Curfew was reimposed today in the trouble-prone areas of Kisan Chowk, Kabirpara, Hanshad Mill,. Paan Haki, Vava Vad, Bhanushali Vad Arya Sa-c«aj Road and the surrounding areas after a relaxation of two hours in the morning.Curfew was imposed around Ki-shan Chowk. from 12.15 p.m. yesterday following a sobbing case in which a young man was killed.No untoward incident has been reported so far.:According to the police, 18 people were arresjed for defying the curfew orders, while 28 others were detained as a precautionary measure.No one has been arrested in connection with yesterday’s murder.A company of the BSF and the state and .the Central Reserve Police-force has been deployed in the troubled areas. Another company of the BSF has been 6ent from Ahmedabad to help the local police maintain peace.Duty on hessian offNEW DELHI, September 8 (PTI): The export duty on hessian has been abolished with immediate effect, it was officially announced here today.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew in JaipurThe Times of India (J86J-current); Oct 20, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Curfew in Jaipurp JAIPUR, October 19 (UNI): An indefinite curfew was clamped tonight on the sub-divisional town of Ladnun in north-east district of Nagaur after widespread violence during a religious procession left one person dead and 14 injured.The sub-divisional magistrate and the deputy superintendent of police are among the injured.According to reports received at the state police headquarters, the violence broke out after the .procession was stoned.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Police fire at mob in RanebennurThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 27, 1985; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 6Police fire at mob in RanebennurHUBLI, October 26 (UNI); The police burst teargas shells several times to1 disperse a violent mob of more titan 3*000 people which indulged in heavy stone throwing and arsfa at Ranebennur, 90 km from here, last night. .	.	'	:The police said the' trouble started when some miscreants threw t stones on a procession in which the idol of Lord Ganesh was being taken foe immersion. The procetoionists turned violent and indulged in looting and clashes.Baha’i plea tft Big-2 for peaceBy A Staff ReporterBOMBAY, October 26: The universal house of justice, the supreme body of the Baha’i world community, has appealed to the superpowers to dispassionately review the world situation plagued with strifes, wars and terrorism.“The achievement of peace is not only within the reach of humanity, but inevitable,’’ the universal house of justice said in a statement entitled “The Promise of World Peace. It was presented to the Maharashtra governor, Mr. Kona Prabhakar Rao, the municipal commissioner, Mr. J. G. Kanga, the police commissioner, Mr. D. S. Soman, and other prominent personalities. ,A similar statement will be presented to the President, Mr. Zail Singh, on Monday by the national spiritual assembly of the Baha’is of India. A copy of the document was also handed over to the U.N. secretary-general, Dr. Perez De Cuellar, at New York recently.In an informal talk with newsmen, Mrs, Zia Mody, a Baha’i member, said that there were four vmllion Baha’is scattered in'340 countries and islands. The release message coincided with the U.N, year of peace.	, ;The body has helped various rural development projects and the f first of such projects was set up » Panch-gani in Maharashtra vrttore vfflagera tore teught modem method* of agriculture, Mrs. Mody said.	___Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Pune still simmeringThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); May 3, 1988; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1The Times of India News ServicePUNE, May 2.THE situation in Pune was by and large peaceful today though there were a few minor incidents of violence and arsonlate last night.Tension prevailed in the city and its surrounding areas since Saturday morning when miscreants desecrated an idol in a temple. Curfew had to be immediately clamped on certain areas where people gathered in large numbers in front of the temple and showed signs of retaliation.In last night’s stray incidents, stonethrowing was reported from some areas and a structure in front of a place ofworship was set ablaze in the Khadki police station area. An attempt to,set on fire a shop at Phadke Houd Chowk was also reported.There was, however, no untoward incident during the curfew-relaxation periods between six and ten in the morning and four and six in the evening. The deputy commissioner of police. Mr S. C. Mathur. said curfewwould be relaxed tomorrow between 4 p.m. and 6 P.M.Mr Mathur said he did not agree with the statement reportedly made by the former chief minister, Mr Shared Pawar, and some other Congress leaders that the police had not handled the situation properly.The police said there were incidents of stone-throwing on places of worship in the area under the Bhosari and Farashkhana police stations last night There were also reports of assaults from some areas. No stabbing incident occurred today.Meanwhile, the five people arrested in connection, with the desecration incident are being interrogated by the officers of the crime branch. So far, the police have not been able to establish their connections with any political communal or social organisation.Mr Mathur refused to divulge the information provided by the main accused in the case on the ground that the police was verifying the statement. He said he could not confirm whether there was any outside agency behind those arrested. Mr Mathur said the main culprit was a normal person andnot insane as reported in a section of the press.The police said during the last 12 hours ending 5 P.M. today, 11 offences were registered and 40 persons arrested, taking the total number of arrests in the last three days to 108. The police also took into custody 67 persons under preventive detention raising the total number of such arrests to 112.The police have opened 16 centres to assist the public during curfew hours. The centres have been provided with two S.T. buses, four jeeps and some auto-rickshaws. So far, 3,000 people have availed of the centres’ facilities.The special IGP, Mr S. P. Singh, who visited the trouble spots in Pune, said that he did not see any political motive behind the act of desecration.Mr B. J. Misar, police commissioner, said if the situation continued to be calm, curfew restrictions could be lifted from Wednesday.Our Staff Reporter adds from Bombay: The Maharashtra minister of state for home, Mr J. T. Mahajan, today said the situation in Pune was now “under control”.Speaking to reporters here, Mr Mahajan said the causes for the outbreak of violence were being investigated and assessed. It was difficult to pinpoint a single cause as the reasons for the eruption of trouble differed from place to place.The police had been directed to employ minimum force and use their “commonsense” and discretion while taking any preventive measures, including arrests and lathi-charges on rioting mobs.Picture on Page 3Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Entry of eight leaders into Meerut bannedThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); May 24, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1The Times of India News Service LUCKNOW. Mav 23.SPORADIC incidents continued to occur in riot-ravaged Meerut and security forces seized a number of weapons from sensitive pockets despite resistance during the past 24 hours, according to official reports, received here.Notwithstanding the ban.imposed on installing public announcement systems inside places of worship, loudspeakers continued to blare communal slogans which aggravated the trouble.Para-military forces and the police have been ordered to remove the loudspeakers.(Entry of eight political and religious leaders into Meerut was banned today as the official death roll in the communal violence rose to 63 and the city lay under curfew for the fifth straight day without any relaxation, reports PTI.The ban orders issued by the district magistrate last night prohibits the entry of Syed Abdullah Bukhari, Shahi Imam Jama Masjid, Delhi, Maulana Nawabuddin Nakshbandi, Imam Saf-darjang Mosque, Delhi, Syed Shahbud-din and Sultan Salauddin Ovasi, both MPs, Mohammed Asan Khan, •Mohammed Safiq-ur-Rahman, and Abid Hussain , (all MLAs), and Mohammed Afeal, editor of the Urdu daily, “Nau.” The leaders were planning to visit Meerut today.)Three more army battalions were rushed to the city and curfew extended to additional areas in the wake of incidents of arson and looting in the medical college and civil lines police stations areas. More than 1,700 persons have been arrested. \With violent incidents continuing, the army jawans began , a house-to-house search for weapons while the police and the PAC concentrated their attention in controlling the riots.The district magistrate, Mr R. S. Kaushik, told reporters in Meerut this evening that 13 drums, each containing 35 litres of highly inflammable acid, several, guns, country-made: pistols, live cartridges and a large number of daggers and sharp-edged weapons were recover following searches in’ different localities. The searches are on, he added.Mr Kaushik said the people were given enough time to surrender any illegal oHicenced arm before the security forces entered their houses. In some places, the security forces met with resistance when they went to collect thearms from the people..RAJIV FIRM (TOINS from New Delhi): The prime minister, Mr Rajiv Gandhi, said today that the government was taking the necessary steps to defuse tension in Meerut and in the ..capital. The communal situation had to be dealt with firmly and there would not be any let-up on that, he asserted.The Prime Minister was talking to guests at the Iftar hosted by Mr Azeez Sait, chairman, A1CC minority cell. Mr Gandhi listened to various points of view expressed by the guests, many of whom had visited Meerut and old Delhi.Mr Gandhi gave a patient hearing to various suggestions made by the guests to strengthen the administrative machinery in the riot-tom areas and toprovide relief to people living in curfew-bound areas.The guests also suggested that some long-term measures be taken to prevent the recurrence of communal trouble, in the same places. It was also suggested to him that the Sub-committee of the national integration council should be activated.The Prime Minister pointed out that there was no other country in the world except India where so many religions existed side by side. This was a unique situation and none should be allowed to disturb this unity in diversity. Therefore, all sections of the people would have to apply themselves together to find a proper solution.The Union home minister, Mr Buta Singh, said that political process, to fight the communal situation in Meerut and Delhi would be set in motion after a couple of -days.The home minister said first the situation had to be brought back to normal through administrative measures.	.Mr Buta Singh said that he was already in touch with various political parties. He would seek co-operation from all major parties and voluntary organisations to help in normalising 'the situation.	•Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿STRAY ASSAULTS AND ARSON IN ALIGARH: SEQUEL TO ATTACK ON PROCESSIONThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 15, 1956; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 7STRAY ASSAULTS AND ARSONIN ALIGARHSequel To Attack On ProcessionALIGARH, September 14: Stray assaults and a few cases of arson were reported from some parts of Aligarh . today following an attack on a procession of students near a mos-'que.	.Some members of the procession were reported to have beer injured by stones and brickbats.An order under Section 144 Cr. P. C. was immediately promulgated and armed police were posted at strategic points.The police resorted to a mild lathi charge to disperse a menacing mob on Kotwali Road. Some cases of assaults were reported from Phaphala and Naurangabad Road.All shops and factories were closed soon after the trouble started.STUDENTS STRIKEIt is reported that students of the local institutions outside Aligarh University drganised a strike against what they described as anti-national activities of the students and authorities of the university.The procession was taken out frop one college to another where at a students’ meeting resolutions were passed demanding “stern action” against the Aligarh University authorities and students who had sought to “disturb the public peace” by taking out “unauthorised processions” on public roads, raising “anti-national slogans” and taking out in procession an effigyof the U.P. Governor!. Mr. K. M.MunShi.	IThe meeting urged the State Government to stop such “manifestations of anti-State activi-the dismis-P-ro-Viceties” and demanded sal of the present Chancellor and action against the president of the. University Union. 'CALL TO SHOPKEEPERSThe processio^t then marched through the principal streets of the town calling upon shopkeepers to observe hartal.When the procession was passing near Moti Masjid, it was reported to have been attacked with stones and brickbats by some persons as a result of which several students received injuries.Following the attack on the procession, cases of arson were reported near the main post office, old Sabjiffiandi, Barahe-wari, Muzammilganj and/ Muslim musafarkhana. The Municipal Fire Brigade took prompt action and put out the fires.The /situation is now stated to be under control.—P.T.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Chavan expresses shock at 'disgraceful' riotsThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); May 12, 1970; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 11Ghavan expresses shock at‘disgraceful’ riots“The Times of India” News Servicefl'HE Union Home Minister, Mr. A Chavan Was so overcome with emotion by what he had seen of the holocaust in Bhiwandi and Jalgaon that twice his voice was choked while making a statement in the Lok Sabha today on the tragic events.Halt-way through the statement hehad to pause and remove bis' epecta-cles as he could not read because his eyes had welled up with tears.He heavily sank back in his seat after saying; “I cannot give adequate expression to my feelings of utter shock and shame, at the disgraceful incidents which occurred in those? places ”DEEP CONCERNThe impact of the communal disturbances in Maharashtra was .one ot rude shock and deep concern among members of Parliament. There was a spate of adjournment motions and 41 calling-attention notices on the sub., ject.There was a tong argument between some Opposition members and the Speaker over the question of admissibility of the adjournment motions.The Speaker’s comment that the matter was important enough to call for a statement from the Home Minister was used as an argument by Mr-Nath Pai (PSP) to justify an adjournment motion. He wanted to know whv then had such a motion been disallowed.The Jana SangH leader, Mr. A. B Vajpayee, and the Swatantra leader Mr, N. G. Ranga, contended that the Home Minister could well make his statement either in response to a calling-attention notice or in reply to an adjournment motion.SPEAKER EXPLAINSThe Speaker explained that he haJ not taken any decision yet on the question of admissibility but normally a calling-attention notice was preferred to an adjournment motion. Mr, J. Mohammed Imam (Swa.) pointed out that an adjournment motion had the effect of a censure and, further, more members could participate in the debate.	.	.The matter was left to be taken up by the Business advisory committee.The Home Minister then gave an account of what happened in Bhi-wandi and Jalgaon. He said: “It is with a deep sense of sorrow that 1 have to report the recent outbreak ol communal disturbances in some places in Maharashtra. Bhiwandi and Jalgaon were badly affected. The trouble began at Bhiwandi on May 7 on the occasion of a Shiv Jay anti pro. cession. Curfew was clamped down at Bhiwandi at midnight on May 7 but the trouble persisted till late in the evening of May X. The number ol persons killed in Bhiwandi is 43, ineluding six as a result of injuries sustained in police firing. The number of persons injured is 278.DAMAGE TO PROPERTY“The damage to property is being assessed, hut the present estimate is that at least Rs. 50 lakhs worth of property had been destroyed. The number of persons arrested is 706, ineluding 176 for specific offences.“Disturbances broke out in Jalgaon, which had a good tradition of communal amity, when on May 8 news about the Bhiwandi disturbances reached there. To control the situation firing had to be resorted to. Thirty-four persons were killed in the course of the disturbances, These are the confirmed figures. They might go up to 41.“Fifty-five persons were injured, in eluding eight due to police firing. In all, 48 persons have been arrested, including 12 for specific offences.Over 200 houses and about 107 shop: were burnt down, resulting in loss oi damage to the tune of about Rs; If lakhs.	<“There were also disturbances a Mahad, in Kolaba district, on May 8 The police resorted to firing and lathi charge. Nine persons were injured, in eluding five in police firing. Propert; worth about Rs. 1 lakh had also beer damaged.”	-Mr. Chavan said a team of officer of the State ClD had been depute* to expedite the investigation into thi specific offences. The State Govern ment had announced the appointmen of a commission, consisting of a serv ing Judge of the Bombay High Court to inquire into the incidents.'The State Government had . als< taken steps for the speedy relief ant rehabilitation of people affected by thi disturbances, and had sanctioned thi scale of assistance similar to victim of natural calamities.' Mr. Chavan said he, along with thi Chief Minister of Maharashtra, visit ed Bhiwandi and Jalgaon on May > and 9 to assess the situation in thos towns.	'P.T.I. adds:In the Raiya Sabha, Mr. Vidy Charan Shukla, Minister of State fo Home Affairs, made a statement oi the communal riots in Bhiwandi, Jal gaon and Mahad and voiced “utle shock and shame at the disgracefu incidents.” '	.The Deputy Chairman, Mr.-B. E Khobragade, said- members could seel clarifications from the Home Ministe on the disturbances after the ques tion-hour tomorrow.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿SIX DEAD &amp; 43 HURT IN RIOTS: 24-Hour Curfew In AligarhThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 4, 1961; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1SIX DEAD & 43 HURT IN RIOTS24-Hour Curfew In AligarhALIGARH, October 3.SIX persons were killed and 43 injured in a flare-up in the city today, according to unofficial figures.A 24-hour curfew has been clamped down on the city .and the full -.riot scheme enforced.The District Magistrate in a press note issued tonight said:“Owing to the failure of university authorities in taking prompt action against the delinquent students who had belaboured six Hindu students in the Ziauddin Hostel on the night of October 1, communal tension developed both in the city and the university area last night.POLICE REINFORCEMENTS“This morning, in spite of an order under Section 144 Cr. P.C. and police reinforcements, a mob of about 5.000 persons tried to proceed from the city to the university area at 10. If was intercepted by the district authorities with the help of the police near the railway bridge and was forced back and dispersed after a show of force.“Taking advantage of the situation, some persons who bore old enmity attacked neighbouring houses and assaulted the inmates. One person was arrested with a foreign-made gun. Some shops owned by members of both communities were burnt on the outskirts of the university area known as Samshad Market. Curfew for 24 hours has been Clamped on the city from tonight. The injured student* were shifted from the University Hospital to the Government District Hospital.“Three battalions of the Armed Police Constabulary have arrived from Agra and the full riot scheme has been enforced. The Commissioner and D. I. G., Agra, have arrived here.” Mr. K. C. Joshi, District Magistrate, has issued the following press note:	.“Following the declaration of the results of the union elections of Aligarh Muslim University, students in the Ziauddin Hostel fell out result-Continued on Page 7 Column 2Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Murder Suspect Arrested: LAUNDRY MARKS GIVE CLUEA Staff ReporterThe Times of India (J86J-current); Nov 9, 1957; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 5Murder Suspect ArrestedLAUNDRY MARKS GIVE CLUEBy A Staff ReporterHiralal Motilal Sonar, Ihe hawker who was alleged to have decapitated his woman companion, Fatimabai Mansur, in a hotel room at Duncan Road, Bombay, was arrested by the police at 8 p.in. on Friday night.After having established Hiraiai's identity the police kept, a watch at all the places he was likely to visit in Greater Bombay. They took him by surprise at Sound Studios, Dadar, where he had gone to seek a job. Before beginning to eke out his living as a hawker, Hiralal was said to have worked as a film extra.SEARCH FOR LAUNDRYHiralal had been residing at Jethabhai Kalyanji Chawl, Duncan Road, and was the neighbour of the murdered woman, Fatimabai. His association with the crime was traced after inquiries at scores of laundries in different parts of the city,Dhobi marks were found on the shirt in which the severed head of the woman had been wrapped and on the clothes worn by the woman. Smart work on the part of Sub-Inspector Wagle, of the Dongri Police, led to the location of the laundry at Duncan Road, not far from the residence of Fatimabai and Hiralal. .Hiralal wag staying with three others on the first floor of the building. When the police visited the place on Thursday evening, his room-mates told them that Hiralal had been away from the house since November 4 and had not returned.After his arrest, Hiralal was said to have confessed to the police. He was stated to have said that he had an affair with the woman and that he decided to “finish her off’ as she was thinking of leaving him.Deputy Commissioner J. Lobo and Superintendent Framroze are in charge of the investigations.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Middle class involved in riots: News AnalysisZaidi, Askari HThe Times of India (1861-current); May 29, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9Middle class involved in riotsBv ASKARI H. ZAIDIMEERUT:THIS historic city had never witnessed violence of this magnitude. Besides the official death roll of more than 100, over 600 houses and commercial establishments have been destroyed in the riots. The judicial inquiry ordered into the Mallyana “carnage” will establish the chronology of the events and the circumstances leading to, among other things, the recovery of the dead bodies from the Hindon and Ganga canal.But the larger question is, can theMeerut riots be explained away merelyas a “total failure of administrative machinery? Doing so would amount to skirting the' basic issues. Because, besides local factors like business rivalry in the handloom trade and lapses of the administration, there are many other issues which emerge from the Meerut experience which are pointers to an extremely grim future scenario.A major part of Uttar Pradesh has witnessed tremendous communalisa-tion ever since the issue of the Babri Masjid-Ram Janambhoomi surfaced. Both the minority and the majority communities have used the issue to whip up passions. The recent rally in Delhi was indicative of the growing aggressiveness of the minorities.The Babir masjid Action Committeeand the Vishwa Hindu Parishad have not lost a single opportunity to stoke the fire. Attempts were made during, the Meerut riots to use mosques in the same way as Gurudwaras are used in Punjab to spread political messages. Most ominously, following the unlocking of the disputed shrine by the order of a judicial magistrate, the propaganda of the leaders of the minority community that the judiciary too had lost all credibility has found increasing adherents.With both communities emotionally charged, the present month of Ramazan has been the most tense inrevealed that most victims had suffered gun-shot injuries. Such brutality is a recent trend.recent history. Thus, when violence erupted in Meerut and later spilled over to other parts of western UP and Delhi, observers were not exactly surprised because tension had been prevailing in this pan of the country for quite some time.The significance of the Meerut riots lies in the changing nature of the communal violence in the country. As was witnessed during the November, 1984 riots in Delhi and elsewhere, several persons werq, burnt alive in Meerut. Houses were set on fire with mobs waiting outside to shoot down those who tried to run out of the house. Inquiries at the hospitals in MeerutAnother new and ominous development was the active involvement of middle class youth in acts of violence and arson. In fact, the riots would not have spread to middle class localities like Shastri Nagar had the educated middle class not participated in actual violence. This reporter, is witness to many such incidents in State Bank colony, Chhipi Tank and Shastri Nagar. Houses of a particular community were selected tn these locality for attacks. The famous Urdu poet, Mr Bashir Badr, is one such victim whose house ip Shastri Nagar was burnt to ashes. Fortunately, he was away in Delhi, and his family members were given shelter in the house of a Hindu neighbour.These riots were different also in that they spilled over to the adjoining rural areas. Except for the Maliyana incident, in which the PACT apparently went berserk and killed many, all other incidents reported from the villages like Abdulpur, Jataoli and Kaseru Khera were of a minor nature. Yet they were the grim reminders of the partition riots which had affected the rural areas as much as they did the cities. (Concluded)The first part of this analysis on the Meerut riots was published on Tuesday, May.26.	,Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿THREE HURT IN BHOPAL CLASH: MAHASABHA WORKER ASSAULTEDThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jun 1, 1954; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9THREE HURT IN BHOPAL CLASHMahasabha Worker AssaultedBHOPAL, May 31: Three persons were injured,, one of them seriously, in a clash that followed a quarrel over a Hindu Mahasabha worker drinking water from a roadside hydrant last night in Mangalwara, a suburb of the city.All the injured persons have been admitted to hospital.Five, persona have been arrested and special police pickets have been posted in the affected locality.The trouble started at a meeting of the Hindu Mahasa-hha convened to discuss plans to hold a poetic symposium. A> worker of the Sabha wag alleged to have been assaulted by some people when he was drinking water from a public tap nearby. The assault was followed by fights among groups of people who used knives and lathi.Police restored order and arrested five persons on the spot.In a press communique, the State Government today warned ‘‘mischief-mongers” that stern measures would be taken if attempts were made to. disturb the peace of the city.Certain shops In the city today observed hartal in response to the Hindu Mahasabha’s call The hartal was later called off following negotiations between the Government officials and Hindu Mahasabha leaders.-' P.T.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Four arrested for rioting in MahimA Staff ReporterThe Times of India (1861-current); Jul 9, 1993; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 4By A Staff Reporter.BOMBAY, July 8: The Mahirr police have arrested four person! and filed charges against about 6( “Unknown persons” in connectioi with the stone-throwing that too! place at Mori Road, Mahim, yes terday.The names of those were noPoMir anresttecl forimmediately available as tin Mahim police said that investiga tions were still under way.A police press statement issued today said that trouble broke out ai1.30	p.m. yesterday when Sanja>riotieg m MadhimniMistry (20) and Ramesh Rathod (17) were set upon by a group of 12 youths outside IC. B. Khilnani school.The fracas soon assumed a communal colour and a mob, peltingstones at passing vehicles, soon took to the streets. The police said that five persons were admitted to Bhabha hospital for treatment, three of whom they named as Vikas Billi, a BEST bus driver, Mrs Fatima Mary, a passenger and Tanai Karim, a passerby.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿1 killed, curfew imposed in BarodaThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jul 18, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 91 killed, curfewimnosed in BarodaBARODA, July 17 (PTl): Curfew was imposed tonight in some localities under the Wadi and city police station areas of the city following renewed mob violence Which led one dead and six injured.One person was stabbed to death and six injured, three of them in police firing, following outbreak of disturbances after reports that the deputy mayor, Mr Nalin Bhatt and six others, arrested under the Anti-Terrorist Act, would not be produced before the court during, the hearing of the case today.The police fired II rounds in Saneshwar Lane and some other localities to disperse ofick-battihg mobs. The situation in the city was stated to be tense.Meerirt: The situation in the not* tom city continued to remain normal for the second day On Friday with no untoward incidents being reported from any part of the city as curfew waS relaxed in two phases.Meanwhile, the additional district magistrate (city), Mr M. A. Farooqi, today issued orders banning the entry of eight prominent Muslim leaders into Meerut district till July 31 in view ol the prevailing tension.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Probe ordered into Hapur violenceThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Feb 15, 1992; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Probe ordered intoThe Timet of India Newt ServiceLUCKNOW, Feb. 14:The toll in communal violence in Hapur town in Ghaziabad district has gone up to nine. The police has arrested IS persons for abetting violence and for violating curfew.According to an official spokesman, curfew continued for the second day today in Hapur. No untoward incident was reported from any part of the town.The government, meanwhile, has announced a judicial inquiry into the communal riots in Hapur. The government today announced an ex-gratia relief Rs SO,000 each to the dependents of the persons killed in the riots, the spokesman said.The clashes broke out between two communities in Hapur on Wednesday night, after the police tried to shift a place of worship of one community to a place owned by members of another community. The police resorted to firing, killing four persons on the spot.violenceReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Sporadic violence in DelhiThe Times of India (1861-current); Jan 29, 1993; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 13NEW DELHI, January 28.STRAY incidents of violence today broke out in some parts of the curfew-bound walled city, gripped by tension since yesterday’s arson which claimed two lives, reports PTI.The situation in the arson-hit areas remained tense but under control. There would be no relaxation before Saturday in the curfew, reimposed after a group of youths turned violent yesterday, the police commissioner, Mr M. B. Kaushal said here.The minister of state for home affairs, Mr Rajesh Pilot visited the walled city and spoke to residents and police officials to take stock of the situation.The It. governor, Mr p. K. Dave, reviewed law and order situation in the area with the chief secretary and police commissioner and gave instructions to deal strictly with rumour-mongers and troublemakers.Security forces staged a flag march in several parts of the walled city as tension prevailed in Chitli Qabar, Kucha Kalan, Suwiwalan and adjacent localities.Fresh trouble erupted in Kala Mahal area in Hauz Qazi when a group of people indulged in stonethrowing. But the situation wasReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Indefinite curfew in Assam townThe Times of India (J86J-current); Oct 8, 1984; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1-	. . i	'	‘	.Indefinite curfew in Assam townGUWAHATl, October 7 (UNI): Indefinite curfew was clamped in and around Mankachar town of lower Assam’s Dhubri district yesterday following a series of violent incidents since Thursday, in which at least tvvo persons were killed, including ona in. police firing and scores injured, delayed official reports received hero said.	:Nine policemen were among those .seriously injured and were admitted to hospital. The reports said two rifles were snatched from two home guards by a mob. .	; .The trouble began on Thursday oyer the taking out of a procession with' the image of Durga for immersion. Members of two communities indulged in stone-throwing and violent clashes, resulting in injuries to several people. ' The police fired two. rounds in' the air to disperse them, and took some of “ them , into custody. ‘	■	.The next day, when a police party was accompanying those? arrested to court, an armed mob encircled the police and demanded their release.But as the police refused to hand over the arrested, the mob attacked them. The police, fired a few founds in , self defence killing one person.Nine policemen were seriously injured in the incident.Another person of a community was killed by a ; group of people of another community yesterday.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Army called in as 13 die in Bihar clashesBrown, DerekThe Guardian (1959-2003); Oct 26, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9JMiFace in a crowd... Supporters of Mr Rajiv Gandhi parade through Delhi to open the Indian leader’s campaign for the general election in a month’s timeArmy called in as 13 die in Bihar clashesDerek Brown in New DelhiVBiHE Army was called in to fl restore order in Bhagal-B pur, in the eastern Indian state of Bihar yesterday, after vicious communal clashes in which at least 13 people were killed.Violence involving Hindu and Muslim mobs has claimed more than 30 lives in the state since Sunday. Those killed yesterday included two women and two children, according to local officials.Five companies of troops and paramilitary forces — around 500 men — were deployed in Bhagalpur, which was already under curfew.The army was given shoot-on-sight orders when arson and looting broke out despite the curfew.The latest surge of communal violence, which is estimated to have taken more than 300 lives throughout India this year, has clouded the run-up to next month’s general election. There has even been speculation that polling may have to be called off in Bihar, a notoriously violent state and also the poorest in India.Much of the recent trouble stems directly from plans by militant Hindus to build a temple on a disputed site at Ayodhya in the state of Uttar Pradesh, bordering Bihar.Hindus revere the site as thebirthplace of the widely worshipped god, Lord Rama. But it is already occupied by an important sixteenth century mosque. Although some Muslim organisations are prepared to hand over the site in the interests of harmQny, many of the faithful are enraged by reports that the more militant Hindus plan to tear it down.The main militant group, the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), says it will lay the foundations for the new temple on November 9, just 13 days before India starts going to the polls.The VHP claims to have collected bricks for the temple from 400,000 villages and districts throughout the country. For several weeks, there havebeen ceremonies and processions to bless the bricks (shilas) for Lord Rama’s new temple.These “Ram Shila” events have sparked off counter demonstrations by Muslims, and sparked violence in many parts, especially in northern India.The clashes in Bhagalpur started when a mob of some 3,000 people tried to block a procession.With communal tension rising, the opposition leader, Mr Vishwanath Pratap Singh, yesterday accused the ruling Congress Party of hatching a “diabolical plot” to help its election chances.He accused Congress of encouraging the violence so thatthey could either postpone the elections, or exploit communal polarisation.“The Congress has cooked up a plot to create communal violence in all Muslim stongholds in north India, Mr Singh told reporters. “Riots will continue up to November 9 when Congress agent provocateurs will attack mosques and create communal frenzy.”Congress has traditionally projected itself as a strictly secular party.Mr Singh appealed, not for the first time, to the VHP to call off the November 9 ceremony. He said his Janata Dal party would send a team to Bhagalpur to assess the situation there.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Many Huts BurntThe Times of India (J86J-current); May 31, 1961; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 5Many Huts Burnt&AHRAICH,	May 29;	> Severalhuts in Fohramafi, a village in the Fakharpur police circle, were burnt yesterday when a mob was said to have set them, on fire following the reported slaughter of a stolen cow.The District	Magistrate and theSuperintendent of Police, Bqhraich, rushed to the scene followed by the civil surgeon who rendered first aid.Forty-two arrests have so far been made and an order under Section 144, CR. P.C., has been promulgated in the city as a precautionary measure.—P.T.I.The Sahitya Akademi has decided to sponsor the publication of gj-tif-al volurfift on contemtsorary HindiUtcratui^	aanafytical study o£ tivc	opvcvctvts (})d M yms 'Dim'im of }))M/l xaXute itotn \9A-7 \o \900..	,	]Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Shiv Jayanti rally stoned in ThaneThe Times of India (J86J-current); May 2, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 5Shiv Jayanti rally stoned in ThaneTHANE, May 1 (UNI): Seven people, including a police officer and three contables, were injured when a group threw stones at a Shiv Jayanti procession at Chinchani, about 100 km from here last evening, the police said today.The injured have been hospitalised and 16 people were arrested.The district collector, Mr Bhaskar Patil, promulgated till May 15 prohibitory orders in Chinchani, Tarapur and Palghar all places within a distance of 30 km. ,The trouble started when a 400 strong procession, which was on its way to Tarapur from Chinchani. a distance of five km, accompanied by music, dance and bursting of crackers, was objected to by residents of the area when it neared a place of worship.When the processionists did not heed the objection, some people gathered and hurled stones at them which, according to the police, was retaliated by some members of the procession.Jalgaon (TOINS): Six persons, including a police inspector and a constable, were injured when a mob threw stones on a Shiv Jayanti procession at . Hingona, in Yawal tehsil, on Thursday, according to reports received here.The police rounded up 35 persons after senior officials rushed to the scene.Shiv Jayanti was observed in Jalga'on district yesterday and grand processions were arranged for the occasion.Witness plea admittedBy A Staff ReporterBOMBAY, May 1. Mr Justice S.W. Puranik of the Bombay high court has admitted a writ petition filed by a pancha (prosecution witness) alleging that a case in the sessions court was causing him “mental tension and torture.”Mr Puranik also passed an interim order staying the sessions court proceedings in the case, in which five persons have been charged with abetting the robbery of a .38 service revolver from a police constable at the Oval Maidan on November 28, 1982.Qiiras Koresh Kujur acted as a pancha when the revolver was recovered from one of the accused, Babubhai Jamnadas Rana. In Septem-■ ber, 1986, Kujur was summoned by the additional sessions judge, Mr Nerurkar, to attend the court and give evidence. 'The recording of evidence began on September 26,1986, and has continued since then on every working day, the petition contends. The evidence in examination-in-chief was recorded in about 35 pages, and thereafter the cross-examination began, the petition said.Kujur has stated that he was employed as a clerk in a travel agency, but since his employer did not grant him leave for appearing in court, he has lost his job.The cross-examination, Kujur said, had run into hundreds of pages and the questions put to him by the defence lawyers of Rana were “irrelevant for the purpose of the inquiry” and yet the questions have been allowed and taken on record.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Police open fire in BarodaThe Times of India (J86J-current); Aug 4, 1982; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1in BarodaBARODA, August 3 (UNJ): Police fired two founds to quell a clash between members of two communities in the city’s Yakutpura, area this, evening.No one. was reported injured in the firing but a State Reserve Police constable'was hurt in the stoning that took place between the two mobs.The police commissioner, Mr. R. Sibal, who rushed to the spot immediately, said the clash was triggered off By a quarrel between a boy, who was coming out of a small restaurant, and another person. The latter was stated to have taken) offence when some drops of water had fallen on his shirt off the umbrella the boy was carrying, he said,	1Within no time, both sides gathered in large numbers and began attacking each other with stones.Police reinforcements rushed to the scene immediately and restored peace, Shops and other establishments in the area downed their shutters soon after,A large contingent of policemen have been posted in the area to maintain order.	■, This is; the first communal clash in the city in more than a month after a series, of. incidents some .months, ago.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿30 killed in U.P. over Urdu issueRAMAN NANDA The Times Of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 30, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 130 killed in U.Pover Urdu issueBy RAMAN NANDA The Times Of India News Service BADAUN, September 29At least 30 people have been killed and over 200 injured in the communal disturbances that broke out in this town yesterday morning over the decision to accord tiie status of second official language to Urdu.At least 75 business and commercial establishments, including petrol pumps, have been destroyed in riots and arson, the first to be witnessed by this town since independence. Scores of vehicles too have been burnt.The town has been placed .under curfew since 4 P.M. yesterday and the police staged a flag march this morning. Yet arson and violence continue, with columns of smoke billowing out of some shops. Gunshots also could be heard.The trouble followed a clash be-tween two rival groups — one opposing the U. P. government decision to adopt Urdu as the second official language and the other supporting it. People were killed in the streets and in railway compartments. While the violence broke out and continued tUl late in the afternoon, a mob of villagers stopped the 103 Up Kflsganj-Kashipur train, two km from here.According to eye-witnesses and victims, the assailants asked the passengers to form groups according to their respective religion.In this violence, casualties werereported on both sides. The loss of one community has been overwhelmingly high in terms of both the number of dead and damage to property. The administration is grossly underbilling the incident. While the district magistrate, Mr Shishir Priyadarshi, claimed that 13 persons have been killed, this reporter counted at least 24 bodies —11 in the local district hospital and 13 in the mortuary.Police reports here said that the Akhil Bhariiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ADVP) had organised an anti-Urdu students’ rally which caused an undercurrent of communal tension inme eiiy*	g .	,The rally, which Started from the Islamia College yesterday, was be lieved to be a “show of strength” organised by Urdu supporters in retaliation to the ABVP’s rally. The district administration, however, did nothing to prevent the trouble at the initial stages.URDU BILL: The Uttar Pradesh official language (amendment) bill, 1989, seeking to accord Urdu the status of second official language was .introduced in the Vidhan. Sabhaamidst unruly scenes and violent protests by | the Bharatiya Janata Party membjers.Angry BJP members, who opposed tabling of the bill contending that it was unconstitutional entered the well of the house and jumped over the speaker’s podium, pushing aside the marshals, wljose caps they snatched.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Delicensed IndustriesThe Times of India (J86J-current); Nov 16, 1966; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9DelicensedIndustries:29 More Added“The rimes of India” News ServiceNEW DELHI, November 15; fpWENIY-NINE more industries A • have, been delicensed. This ma,kes a total;- of ,42. ihdustries ex-empled from the provisions of Jii* dusirips: (Developtnenti. andl Regiila-lion) Act. J;Today’s list includes . agricultural implements like non-vehicular combustion engines, power-driven purpps and sprayers which, would be Tn: demand’ for thp emergency ,food production programmes: being undertaken, in -!-v drought-hit; parts of Bihar,:' ancf U.P,■; Anrong the. other ' industries1 covered are electric furnaces; bicycles and components, tea ^machinery. small air and gas compressors, : fire-fighting equipment sewing machines,' ;weigh-ing machines, • mathematical instruments, mixed fertilisers, some barium salts,. paper, straw and-hard board.•- The Onion Minister' for, Indiistry,Mr. Sanjivayy a, explained that,.-' as on previouS: occasions, . the two; main considerations.kept in view- were that the delicensedindustriesr should not require, ^substantial/. import of conipo-hents. or' raw, materials .and .that 'the interests' of, the .Small-'scalc sector'are. not 'affected; . • ;■ •	• /' '' ■	;CALCUTTA CURFEW . :	Tension Eases“The Times of India” News Service , CALCUTTA, November 15: Thedusk-to-dawn curfew , imjipsed' in Metiabrirz, in. the 24-PaTganas district, anti parts of Garden .Reach' 'in 'Cal-•cutta ; yesterday, ' following , a clash between two groups of people and police firing resisting jn. the. death ol two persons and 'injuries to 18. was relaxed; today, iri. view pf’thc. iittprove-, merit in the situation. -/ ■’ The. curfew ■■ will begin at . 9-30, pim today and end at dawn. -'The order, under Section 144vCr,P:C.;: however, continues; . ' ..	. l -	-.The . JGP of West Bengal, Mr.’ Upananda Mukhejrjee,; said ihemsitua-tion .^is;.'<iuiet,^nd-^mpt<fejy;'..iin[dejr’ control, .■ '■;	''	; ; 'According to the superintendent of police, in . 24-Parganas district.: .the trouble began • on /Sunday dji' Paharpur where a procession of the fmage of the Goddess Kali for ; immersion was attacked by a group of. people'caming out of .'a ■place rof worship with, brickbats and lathis;'ThA police dispersed the rival groups by bursting /tear-gas shells. ■'	. /.,Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Unity bid by Urs ex-aideThe Times of India (J86J-current); Nov 29, 1978; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9Unity bid by Urs ex-aideBy Our Special CorrespondentBANGALORE, November 28:	Aconvention is being held shortly by pro-unity Congressmen in Karnataka, headed by Mr. S. M. Krishna, former minister in the. Urs cabinet.The action committee of Congressmen for unity today hailed the recent Congress working committee’s resolution, “positively responding to the call of unity given by Mrs. Gandhi.”The continuance of Mr. K. H. Patil, who has opposed Congress unity, ,as the KPCC president was considered an anomaly by the committee. “Mr. Patil does not “reflect the true feelings of the rank and file,” the committee said.Aligarh returning to normalALIGARH, November 28 (PTI): The situation in Aligarh is fast returning to normal with no report of any incident in any part of the city during the last three days,'Curfew was relaxed for 12 hours today, from 6 a.m. to 6 p,m.The authorities are thinking of further relaxing the curfew if the situation continues to improve.All junior high schools and intermediate colleges, which were ordered to be closed by the district authorities in the wake of riots, will reopen on December 1. Cinema shows will also start from tomorrow. ■Twelve injured in clash at AkotNAGPUR, November 28 (PTI): Twelve people were injured, some of them seriously, in a clash between two groups of people belonging to different communities at Akot, a tebsil town in Akola district, this, morning, according to official Teports received her6.Hie immediate cause' of the dash was stated to be the theft of crops by one group.Section 37 (I) of the Bombay police act, banning processions and carrying of lethal weapons, has been promulgated in Akot town with immediate effect.The situation was now “completely under control,’’ the report said. 'Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿12	more die in KarnatakaThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 7, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 112 more die in KarnatakaThe Times of India News Service BANGALORE, Oct. 6.AT least 12 persons were killed, including eight in police firing, and over 40 injured when a Ram-jyothi procession went berserk in Davangere today even as the four-day-old communal blashes spread to Mandva district too.Violence was continuing tonight and the situation was not in control, according to state police headquarters here, The police were still battling frenzied mobs on the streets despite the enforcement of curfew. Late today, the state government banned all Ram Jan-mabhoomi processions.Meanwhile, the Karnataka gov-ernment has asked for police reinforcements from Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu to assist its hard-pressed local forces, the home secretary, Mr N. A. Muthanna, announced today. The clashes have already claimed 25 lives during the past four days.Riots erupted in Davangere after midnight when the processionists who were stopped from attacking a place of worship set nearly 60 shops and many vehicles ablaze, police sources from the town said over telephone.Police units from Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu have already been deployed here. The fresh reserve force that will besend from Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra will be kept as contingency forces and used when necessary, an official spokesman told reporters here.Last night, the police fired in the air several times in Kolar district and at rampaging mobs in Davangere town in Chitradurga district where 15 persons were hurt and several vehicles and over 50 shops set ablaze. Three rioters sustained bullet injuries.However, no violence was reported from the toy-manufacturing town of Channapatna, 70 kms from here, where 16 persons died and over 50 were injured on Wednesday in an oigy of com-munal attacks. In Kolar, curfew remained in force as violence which has so far claimed two lives, continued to rock the town, the police reports said.The police forces in Bangalore have been put on the alert and prohibitory orders were clamped on the city today by the police commissioner. In the Kesthur village of Maddur taluka in Man-dya district, nearly 20 shops and houses and a lorry were burnt by mobs.Meanwhile, the Congress president, Mr Rajiv Gandhi, is reaching here today and intends to tour the riot-tom and curfew-bound towns of Kolar and Channapatna.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿One killed in Kerala communal riotThe Times of India (J86J-current); Oct 18, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1One killed in Keralacommunal riotTHIRUVANANTHAPURAM,o*.i7(pn*ONE person was killed and five were injured in a clash at Karipparambu in Koala's Malappuram district. The police fired in the air to dispose a crowd at Kootilangadi in the same district as protest demon* strations over the killing of the “mukhri of a mosque at Kattoor in Thrussoor District on Sunday continued for the second day today in different parts of the state.	.Minor dashes, damage of buses in stone*throwing incidents and forced closure of shops were reported from many places, even at district authorities damped prohibitory orders banning processions, meetings and carrying of weapons.Normal operation of longdistance services by the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) was partially affected due to incidents of stone-throwing and setting up of road blocks in pertain places. Over 25 KSRTC butts were damaged.According to reports from Kochi, in Mattancherry, two persons were killed in police firing yesterday and another was found dead with stab injuries this morning Moreover, the situation was peaceful with large contingents of CRPF and Kerala armed police continually patrolling the vulnerable areas.The Kerate chief minister, Mr EK. Nayanar, has called an all-party meeting tomorrow to discuss tbe communal situation, , following clashes in different partsof the state over the murder of a madrassa (school) teacher in Trichur district on Sunday night, allegedly by RSS activists, reports TOINS.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Two hurt in firingThe Times of India (J86J-current); May 5, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 9AHMEDABAD, May 4 (PTI): Two persons, including a 30-year old woman, wire injured as the police opened lire to disperse rival groups throwing stones at each other at Bhenderi Pole in the Kalupur area of old Ahmedabad tonight.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿8 killed in fresh Varanasi violenceThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Nov 14, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1SHOOT-AT-SIGHT8 killed in freshiVaranasi violenceThe Times of India News Servicevakainasi, iNovemoer is. L’vtiN as me irouDie-iom cuy JLswas returning to normal, the situation took a turn for the worse, when eight persons were killed and over a dozen sustained stab injuries this afternoon. All the injured were rushed to two different hospitals where the condition of at least three persons was stated to be critical.The district magistrate, Mr Saurabh Chandra, immediately withdrew the eight hours curfew relaxation, given for the first time in the area under eight police circles, since the violence broke out on Friday last. .Everything was normal till 2.50 pm when suddenly violence broke out in Madanpura, the locality where communal violence began on Friday last with the stabbing of one person. This incident created panic and within an hour as many as eight persons were killed. The police and the Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) contingent headed by Mr S.N. Yadav chased the miscreants, who later fired from the housetops. Within an hour, the area from Madanpura to Jagambari and Godaulia turned into a battle ground, dead bodies and those injured lay scattered along the roads. They were taken tohospitals in police vans and auto rickshaws.	IThe DIG police, Mr Hanjumant Mishra, and SSP Mr Kalrambir Singh, took command apdj faced firing and stone-throwing; from housetops. Two officials, Mr J.N. Pandey, and Mr R.K. Singh had a miraculous escape when about half a dozen bombs were hurled at them. Both escaped with minor injuries.Although the police had cordoned off the areas from Madanpura to Jagambari, it was reported that thousands of people had squatted near Jagambari Nath demanding stringent punishment for' miscreants who were bent upon disturbing the peace in the city.Commotion and panic prevailed and people including men, women and children ran better skelter for safety as the police van fitted with loudspeakers announced that curfew would again be enforcedUnofficial reports, however, put the casualty figure more than a dozen and injuries to 21 persons who have been admitted to SSPG and Sir Sunder Lai Hospital (BHU). About 8 women also received knife injuries and were admitted to the SSL hospital.The district administration today issued “shoot at sight” orders in Madanpura and SonarpuraReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿1 dies in Calcutta group clashThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Nov 24, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 91 dies in Calcutta group dashThe Haas af India New* Sank*CALCUTTA, November 23: One person lit killed, another seriously iqjwvd and eight were discharged after fintaad Whereas l-dash between two groups of peopleis which a house was , set on firt^ihe Weft Bengal mimstar far. informattoo, Mr Buddhadev Bfaat-tschasya, m»d here today.The incident occurred at around 7JO i.m. after which the Easton Frontier Rifles stated a route march through the area and were detailed to patrol the scene.The police fired two rounds, one. from t revolver and the other from a rifle and also seven rounds of tetr-gts to bring the mob under control. The police recovered six bombs from the area.According to tbe chief secretary, Mr Rathin Stsgmft, a quarrel began over procurement of kerosene in the rooming. A man was caught when he tried to procure kerosene far the third time from the shop. He was allegedly manhandled after which he returned with a group of anti-socials belonging to one community.A dash occurred near tbe College Street market xn oentnl Calcutta and spread to the nearby residential buBd-inas and one house was set ou fire. Five pwicemrp and several fire service per-smnat were burned and two fire tracks were tlimatnf in the violence.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Riot in Malda claims three livesThe Times of India (J86J-current); Aug 8, 1980; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 14Riot in Malda claints three livesBy Our Special CorrespondentCALCUTTA, August .'7;. Three persons died and six others ,-were wounded during the last 24; hours - in the Suiapur area in Malda district •n incidents of a communal nature. The chief . minister, Mr, Jyoti Basu, said the situation was under control. Prohibitory order under 5 744 Cr PC has	been promulgated	in	Kaliachakand	English Bazar.	<	’To deal with a “riotous situation” last night, the police had fired over 50 rounds, resulting in one degth. Two others died in clashes today. BSF contingents, available in the area, had been rushed to the troubled area immediately	on	the	stategovernment’s, request. The state po-. lice	reinforcement has	also	beensent.	t #Briefing newsmen, the, chief....minisr ter traced the incidents to what an official report called forcib’e cattle grazing on others’ land by milkmen, ^ which the villagers resisted. Today’s clash and police firing topk place at English Bazar. In all. 37 peop’e Have been arrested so far.India gets fast-speed boats from S. KoreaSEOUL, August 7. (PTI):; Six Swallow 65 type fast speed patrol boats left their home of.-Posan Dry Port today to join the anti-smuggling craft of the coast guard of India.With the despatch of these 25-knot p’us speed glass fibre reinforced boats, a new drive against smuggling gets under way. in India.The leader of the Indian delegation, Lt. Comdr. G. S. Beniwal, said that the operation , was “very good/’ These 20 meter-class boats will be commissioned at Bombay later this month......................Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew In parts of DelhiOur Staff CorrespondentThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 15, 1979; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1By Our Staff CorrespondentNEW DELHI, September 14.GURFEW was imposed in pare of the walled city following clashes in Chawri Bazar, Painwala Complex and Jama Masjid area between ‘groups of people late to*night.	’ . .	v*.The police commissioner, Mr,J.	N. Chaturvedi, said that the situa-t;on was under control and the curfew would be relaxed, if the situation eased	4The curfew will be in force till, 8 a.m. on Sunday. No casualties were reporter though a large number of people were reportedly injured, including five policemen and four firemen.	.The injured have been admitted to the J.P. Hospital where four of them are reported to be in serious condition.The police fired a number of rounds in. the air at two different places and burst tear-gas shells at several others to disperse the mob. The rioters also attempted to set fire to the Jama Masjid police post, ^fowever, a scooter parked outside 'the police post was burnt.	>SHOPS SET ON FIREThough the extent of the property damage was not immediately known, several shops in the crowded area were set on fire and a number of vehicles damaged. Among the vehicles were a fire brigade tender, a police jeep, a patrol room van and- several private cars parked bn the roadside,	?A large number- of persons were rounded up by the police around midnight but exact number was not known.The police said that the trouble started when a group of people tried to go to a mosque for the evening prayers. They apparently met resistance from another group. There was an exchange of brickbats and soda water bottles.	’Simultaneously, several groups of people reportedly started throwing stones and other missiles from the roof-tops in various localities. The entire area was littered with stones and broken soda water bottles.The deputy commissioner of po!cev central district, Mr. T. R. Kakkar, and the assistant commissioner of police,'Mr. S. S. Grewal, were among those injured. ‘	' ...The rioting apparently was brought under control in less than an hour in all the areas. But the tension 'Still persists.	.	; ' 1	;■Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Probe soon: city riotA Staff ReporterThe Times of India (J86J-current); Feb 23, 1974; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 5Probe soon: oih riof\ Shift’ ReporterT}ih	Mj ha rabbit ra. g.v. c: nmentwill strong .md sunn me.t->iiiC' i>i curb corrtmtm.il riois and ^•'•'ndaiNiTt. Mr, K, P. Pal if. minister ol siaic lor iihi.11jntri. ><nd in iht MaharH.hiri Icgi'limu- coun-sii in Bon^bai on; hiidav Mi. I’an’ N. .is mftKiiij; .i stale men;•n ihe absvtKC o( Mi. 'sha.md Pa war. mni.>ici .a >! a >a ijo; home, cm .m adlouMimmi 'nuiioiji. mom! by Mr.(. . R Rhof-oit •• il(j,lo. on ihc fK’i co firm;; o:i an u-nuly ;m>b in the Hh.it h../.r hv.d-i,' ot et*n'.:.v! Us»mbii> on Ih. t'd.'' rn;;h.. m 'Ah:»h \li> M.uihuri K	Bit.''a	dad and	h-ai	o!hei pri-sons i1 a . n 111 red.M' Pj! ! ;ts' :ud \| K'mOo'k \\:i..:	.i ; i ! uiq'.i oak; ha made> I hr .1-. Mem. 11 • 1 : dcl.i o, flo'll ’, -.I	-a	I H	h'V	o’C*'I	!;	i;iV r, 1 i	1! .iI ...	. i.m ..	i.,	■ a i in \> .’; , ’lii mime n n a, 'ei . .i. u	. u., >.i	.*..,- siui.n SiHi'.i.	.’’ye n ; it*»•:	;•	*.*•	:' ■ •	,i	o	, , ,i	v	s. .	■	! v'1C •	. *TU vl	itsl oi .c',POUCfMtN UlUkll)1	't> Pt 'l	. r.e	' ■<	■■■> '	.... i-> ,..v i;.i m.	!	A ..	,a A*.	■ '. .i ’ e	il V>1 a llaskAn	.a mod	poll,	v'e’Ti.ii	i 1 he	rcup ’ll lirediCil	■i’i nJ	s 01	wlrti	h M	’.. M.alhm:h	Hi .aHa	d ad	and	lour	ptv*plc wt.emji.	Old.				Poltsc rc irtovcmen's «ca had i-< a. 'sene .tr.d Ohonyirt 'he vitiationnil-, i v ol lh’|*. 4<t [T'liU--.	11'.Pa.m .i .m.I t”, .•: ’He y.,-'*a-nu im a.-.'.‘..■.a Ot ■ s. l.i n (■.. ■ s >*i - a’*a m.*.-.Ha .a. 1	’ ,i'v' . ‘, i1’1 111 **. o vi* ;.. ■ n ps .t,ai'N.1 .	v • .11.	i .*.:;■ a I heNa S • .. h *•.. .d-:. a a .uti•' >• :a It. mI. s	n\| : ts‘ ... .-Vi .	*i .	’ :i. .i- ■I-., r	a !	■ d	/h;	i.Vc ,|T,. I ■■ oh,i ; .	e	.’	•	'	'	h	'Ale ”i	ihc b a*\l	\(	l.iii.l	j.-h i S N t	,i .C.>t’dpol'.r ol i' o'.’ vl 'la ''-id eh,c -ie .	t'n.* iiv.i M' M>. 1) \	l>c-'b-p Ut.hid i *..t d v( ..m people weic i...,. inp di 1 hcr.tte ..ue:».i,:» to lonier.t oonifmnul ; i oaMe it h a ' c a ;o m.d-i mo	a	ou.	a .	ui	ol	:he sh e*	minisicroi \1.th.irash’ a.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿POLICE FIRE TO DISPERSE MOBS: THREE KILLEDThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 1, 1966; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1POLICE FIRE TO DISPERSE MOBS Three KilledeThe Times of India” News ServiciAKOLA, September 30; Three persons were killed when the police opened fire to disperse unruly mobs at Mangrulpir, a tehsil town 40 miles from here, last night, according to the latest information, . Two groups of people were stated to have clashed when the Ganesh immersion procession reached a place of worship. Stones .and lathis were.used in the fight.	.To break up.the menacing mobs, tile police fired.	.The situation is now quiet.An order banning the assembly of .more than four persons was imposed.	.Some 50 persons were reported to have received, minor injuries. They were admitted to the District Hospital, Akoia.	'Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew again in BarodaThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 15, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 13Curfew againinBarodaThe Times of India News ServiciBARODA, Sept. 14: An indefinite curfew has been reclamped in the Vadi and city police stations covering the main market areas in the city following renewed violence in which at least six persons were injured, twc of them seriously.The police fired at least 11 rounds and burst a number of teargas shells to quell the disturbances before im posing indefinite curfew from 2.1! p.m. The police said none was in jured in the firing.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿One killed in Srinagar firingThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 5, 1984; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1SRINAGAR, ■ October 4: A teen aged girl was killed and three othei persons / including two women wen injured, when. the police opened fin to disperse a stone-pelting mob whip! attempted to disrupt the ‘ashura’ pro cession here trwfav i	,Nearly 100.. persons /including a ..large number of policemen sustained ' irijuiiei^in'< more, serious .cases were admitted, to hospital.	• .V ■	■•'The dead girl . was idntifid as Oil-shad, lb. - of Saida Kadal. She hadhad come to- Maisuma to visit her relatives. She was peering out of a window when a bullet. fired in the air hit her In the forehead. ’The other tWo .wOmeni,' .who sustained bullct injuries, iin Maisuma, Were videntified' as' Tarawati. ’wife of Gunda Ram, and Zubelda. The fourth injured* a man,,had nof, been. identified till late in the-evening. He was injured when the police opened fire in Kukar Bazar just off Lai Chowk.'The ‘ashura’ procession, Which: was nbt as. largely attended as In the previous yea,rs On ;account of the. 'tension in the city, terminated at. Dal-gate alter commencing from the Jehanglr Hotel roundabout, Normally the procession commences at Guru Bazar. But this year, on the advice of the district' authorities,- the organisers decided to start from - a point which was comparatively free of ten sion. ' '	'• n, V • ’But the processlonfsts came under attack as soon as they passed through Budshah Chowk. A hail of stoneswere rained upon /them' from both sides, resulting .in injuries to ' a large■	number of people.	. \	'r The police resorted to- cane. charges arid when these proved ineffective, resorted to teargassihg. The mob . recreated into the,by lanes'rind a; section attempted to set fire to the ■■ youth federation office in Maisuma, The federation Owes allegienpe .-to.'the chief minister, Mr G. M. Shah. . / •■ . ■ i'■ , ' '	'' _< \. tThe staircase . and /some, rooms caught fire' but ,the fire brigade .was able1 tO bring, the blaze under'control before it, spread to the entire building. ■	 ■'	f.. \The office of the : policev division nearby was also attacked. Its window panes and some furniture was damaged^ ■	' ' •• r‘:i'-i-	- '■	f'-V	1. When the situation: seemed to get out of hand, the, police opened' fire. 'The Senior’superintendent of-pOlice, Mr J as want Singh, and two other deputy superintendents of policy weije trapped by a mob near Gowkadal. They were rescued with great' difficulty. '	’ ; ■	■V,j- V ■/--■■■•■'-’■	.•	■	. '»	■;	/>. ■ ' .. ' jPatrolling in the city was intensified following these incidents.' A strong police contingent was .posted at lla-zu.ri Bagh whe.re the traditional ‘Du?-sehra’ celebration were observed this morning.-	■	,	'UNI adds: Indefinite curfew would be imposed from, 7 a.m. tomorrow in Srinagar city as a precaution, it was officially announced tonight.. •The step has been taken as the state government had information that an attempt may be made by antisocial elements tp disturb the peace.All Offices and educationai institutions will remain closed tomorrow'.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Indore riots reveal govt. apathySharma, AnilThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 17, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of Indiapg. 10By AML SHARMA The Times of India News Service INDORE, October 16.DEATH and destruction has put this city on the map of communal violence-prone cities in the country. All the elements of communal frenzy that are an inevitable part of the chain of events were repeated in their bizarre aspects here.There was a religious procession; there were pious declarations of good behaviour and communal harmony; and there was the administration’s misplaced over-confidence that it was fully prepared to meet the situation. After all, said the district collector, Mr Bhagirath Prasad, “We had-deployed 18 magistrates in the city when the religious procession was taken out and we had a written undertaking from the organisers of the procession that they would not carry arms and there would be no provocative slogans.But all this means virtually nothing for the kin of the dead and the people who have been maimed in the violence. Their names now really do not matter. Among the.dead could be an Altaf Hussain or an Om Prakash. Among the injured there could be a Hemant Sharma or a Masroor Ali. It really does not matter. As the injured wail in agony at the Maharaja Yashwant Hospital, all the assurances and precautions of the state government mean nothing to them.The tales that emerge from these sick beds reveal the gross failure of the administration in coming to terms with a grim situation. Mr Bhagirath Prasad himself, admitted that there was tension in the city after the ‘Ram Shila* pooja. “But we thought that if the procession is allowed, then the simmering tension between the two communities will be defused. We did not expect that the result would be so bad,” he said.But almost everyone here felt that the situation had reached a flashpoint though no one in the administration really cared. “There is also the policy of the state government to treat all communities on a par and when the ‘Ram Shila’ pooja procession was allowed, we though that the Milad-E-Unnabi procession should also be allowed, said Mr Prasad.these houses were full of it,” he said.There is considerable anger in both the communities against the police force. Hiralal Soni, a jeweller in the Jawahar Mans area whose house was the target of processionists, said the police just fled the spot He said the rioters entered his house and looted cash and jewellery. “All the things that were in our house have been looted,” he said. In the same area, living about 20 yards off the main road, is the Bhama family. The family members said that the rioters entered their house, burnt a moped and decamped with cash and ornaments.There is no dearth of such tales in this city. Official estimates of the losses in the riots from arson and looting have been placed at Rs 50 lakhs. But a former minister, Mr Rameshwar Patel, who was an eyewitness to the start of the incidents, put the damage above Rs 1 crore. The number of burnt vehicles itself could: be more than 300.	.Many citizens felt that there was no protection to life and property. There are allegations that the police virtually helped the riots. But some policemen Were also injured. MrThis “innocence of the administration has cost the city dearly.There is a colony in this city called Zabran colony, named so because it came into existence by the force of 'encroachment. More than 100 hutments in this colony have been reduced to ashes. The people have fled the area and in the house of Kalilbhai, the women are so scared that they start screaming when there is a knock on the door. “We just do not know where our menfolk are, said Sairabee clutching a three-year-old son, with fear writ large in her eyes.Yet a sub-inspector posted at Zabran colony said it was from the house of Katilbhai that several arms were recovered. This inspector also explained about the preparations that had gone into these riots. “Country-bomb or petrol bomb are not easy to make and it required a lot of time, butVijaypal Singh, who sustained a head injury and was admitted to hospital, ; said that he was struck by a soft drink bottle and a stone.	>The response of the administration to the entire episode can be gauged , from just one sympolic gesture. The ; home minister, Mr Jaipal Singh, who < was at his home district, Panna, when 1 the riots broke out on Saturday came j to this city this morning, after a > detour to New Delhi. He took a , round of the city and then had his: lunch at the residency kothi. But he could not afford to miss his afternoon i siesta. Even as the city was tense and j there were some incidents of viol- > ence, Mr Singh went off to sleep for * 45 minutes.	■ ; /His special assistant, Mr Dube,!; said: Saheb khana kha far so rahe hain. Mein jagane gaya tha, par woh v jage nahin. Lagia fain gehri neend-mein hain. (Sahib had his lunch and went to sleep tried to wake him up, but failed. It seems he is sleeping' soundly).	;This response perhaps symbolises { the state of the administration] i* Everyone was aware that there could* be tension and the procession would spell disaster. So, what else could ope expect, except death and destruction^Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew again in Moradabad: four killedThe Times of India (J86J-current); Oct 31, 1980; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1'■ IVfOTJ AT} 4R ATT(PTI & UNI):■‘’“NDEFINITE curfew was impos« — _ ed here today- following a series of violent incidents leaving four people dead,- including two women, taking the death roll dur-ipg the last 48 hours to nine.The police fired 20 rounds to disperse groups exchanging fire and brickbats in different localities, But no casualties have been reported and the district authorities described the situation as calm.A man seen burying the bodies of 'two women in the Katnhar localitywas arrested, tne divisional commis s;oner, Mr. Rama Chandra Takru, tol< UNI.The two murders were being invest! gated. One woman was aged abou: 45 and the other seemed youngerClip MEN HURT' ' !He said two men of the Centra Reserve Police suffered minor burns in cracker explosions.The curfew imposed after the Id Day flare-up of August 13 was lifted only on October 3. Stray incidents since last Saturday have claimed 11 lives.	'Following renewed violence, some leaders, including/lDr. Hansraj Chopra find Mr. Prem .Shankar Sharma of tne Bhaitiya Janata Party, Maulvi Rais Ashraf, a member of the Khak&arane Hak Organisation, and Mr..I. A. Khan were arrested. .Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Pool tragedy leads to family rowOur Siaff ReportersThe Times of India (1861-current); Jun 26, 1974; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 3[CITY & SUBURBSBy Our Staff ReportersA CONFLICT has arisen in the family of Paresh Vaidya (19) over the cause of .his death in the naval swimming pool at Colaba on Sunday. ,v ■ ' ■ . ■ .; ' While Paresh’s maternal , uncle,' Mr.' .V. N. Madgeri, alleges foul play; 'Paresh’s mother has said that . she' does, hot suspect: anything.■	Mr. Madgeri • told the coroner,Mrl: H. J. C.hinoy, that Paresh, a■	good swimmer and sportsman, had ■•	often complained about the misbehaviour of his stepfather with whom he had gprie for a swim on Sunday.Mr. Madgeri said} his younger sister, Mahankali, was • first married to Mr. Sukhadev Manjrekar. in 1954.Paresh was their son. In 1961,' Mahankali' divorced Mr. Manjrekar and married. Mr. ..Suresh: V. Vaidya without his (Mr. Madgeri’s) permission: .Paresh stayed with- his mother and stepfather, Mr: Vaidya. ..■■ I On' Sunday, Paresh, his step-father and . two; younger stepbrothers went to the naval swimming pool.Paresh' was staled to have become unconscious and was taken to the Aswini Hospital where he died.: 7 .Paresh’s. mother said Paresh, his father, :his two brothers and - a friend of theirs, Mr. V, R. Kamath,. had been to the swimming pool. At about. 12-30 p.m., she was informed * by Mr, Kamath’s brother that Paresh was unconscious and was in the Aswini Hospital. ; ■... C: The., coroner handed over the body to her.' Dr. P. P. Phatnani has reserved the cause of death till he re-ceivds the chemical analyser’s report.Workers? donation' A cheque of Rs. 37,260 was handed over to. Mr. B. M, Puran-.' dare, trustee of the Pratisthan Trust,.by Mr.’P. B. Kerkar, general mana-;. ger of •. the BEST undertaking in•	Bombay on Tuesday. The amount was contributed by the - undertaking’s employees towards the exhibition in connection with the tri-centenary of -the coronation of Shivaji, :Prbcession srfonedA bride and her1 {room were forced to flee to safety when their marriage. procession was stoned at: the junction of Nanubhai Desai Road and ’ Inslampura lane on Sundaj night..;..':.• .' :.The police said trouble ’ started when the residents of Islanipura ,;lane objected to the playing of music when the procession neared the area/	..- •;■ ' •• ' . .' : .Stones, soda-water bottles and bricks were freely used. -	. y,i	The. police have; arrested' Moha-mccd Maqbool Ali, Farud Ahmed . Abdul Majid, Mohamed |; Ahmed,Aziz, Jangmulla and 32 others, tCouple sentencedMn Balkrishna Chanclrakant Sa-want and ; his wife, Vimal, were on Monday sentenced by a metrqpdli- tan magistrate, Mr. . M. W. Desh-mukh, to' two years’ rigorous im. prisonment and to pay- a- fine of Rs. 1,000' for running a brothel in Hindu Colony, Dadar.	;Meanwhile, the drive against pro' stitutes and their agents continues.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.During the .last two .days, the. vigilance Branch arrested one pimp and seven prostitutes near Opera House and two pimps and four prostitutes near the Regal Cinema, ■'	.;Petrol dealer held. Madhav K. Ruia, owner of several petrol pumps, and two others have been arrested by the Bombay CID for allegedly selling adulterated petrol. ,.	.	•	.	' ” ., The police acted., on. a . complaint made by a man Who suspected that the petrol he bought on- Saturday front a pump in Worli was adulterated. Samples of petrol -from the pump . have been sent for . chemical, analysis. : -	■ ..	. ',The two other men, Nandlal Upa-dhya and Damodar Nambiar, were Ruia’s' employees.	’ :	'■ ■/ .■ *' ; ■ ' *' '*’ ■.• '■ :■ .* ■ , ..South Avenue Road. in. Santa Cruz, from its junction with- Swami Vivekananda Road and 19th Road, was renamed. . Ramkrishna Mission ;:Marg by Mr. M. W. Desai, municipal commissioner, on Sunday.'• ;■	' -f ;; *.	.	::	■ ...Saplings of garden and avenue trees suitable! for Bombay will be provided by the Friends of Trees, at cost, for monsoon planting, according . to Mr. Joseph John, its honorary general secretary, The three distribution centres are: Marye, J.. J. Hospital Nursing As, sbeiation . Compound (phone: 691922); : Khar, N. S. Rao, V Union Park (531410); and. Dadary Kisan Mehta, “Rajiv”. 620,. Jam-e-Jamshed Road? (446688).	. .	■* ■ ,: -. As in ^previous years, the Jau Se-vak Samaj will give text-books free to Harijan pupils in the Lower Pare! 'area, according to Mr. C. K. Jethva, secretary, A few; books were given a,way by. Mr, P.j C. Pandya, deputy 'municipal •; commissioner, at a jformal function on Monday. )Dr. M. H. Keshwani, plastic surgeon of Bombay, has been elected chairman of the fourth international conference of research in bums to be' held in Argentina in September.■ ■■■' ; ' ■■■’ <= • ' * - '■ 'Babita, : actress-wife of film star Randhir Kapoor, gave birth to a girl at, the Breach Candy Hospital ' on Tuesday.	.	.	'
﻿A.P. police firing to quell mobThe Times of India (J86J-current); Sep 11, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 7A.P. police firing to quell mobKAKINADA, (Andhra Pradesh) September 10 (UNI): The police fired five rounds in the air to quell mob violence at the temple town of Draksharamam, 20 km from here, on the night of September 8-9.Three shops were looted and a press was set on fire. Three policemen were also injured in stone throwing, the police said.The trouble started when some students of a school, objecting to the interpretation by the teacher of a lesson as derogatory, mustered some people of a community. This resulted in an altercation between people of two communities in front of a police station, disrupting traffic for several hours. As the mob did not heed the advice to allow the traffic to flow normally and disperse peacefully, the police made a mild cane charge.: The mob indulged in stone-throwing, looting and arson, following which the police fired in the air.Prohibitory order under section 144 IPC was promulgated in the town. No arrests have been made.Gazetted officers of Bihar reject planThe Times of India News ServicePATNA, September 10: Bihar state gazetted officers’ association yesterday rejected the proposal of the cabinet sub-committee and the official team to form a separate panel to look into their demands.The proposal came up during the first round of talks between the government and the employees.A state government release, however denied, there was any difference of opinion between the ministers comprising the sub-committee, lire second round of talks was held with the representatives of the Yogendra Singh faction of the non-gazetted employees. The faction is demanding Central payscales on the basis of the Central pay fixation policy. However, the committee suggested that they first sort out issues on which there was differences of opinion. The talks are in progress now with the coordination committee of employees, teachers and officers.UP flood toll rises to 160LUCKNOW, Sept. 10 (PTI): The toll taken by house collapses and landslides in Uttar Pradesh during the current monsoon rose to 160 today with five more deaths reported from different places in the state.Of the fresh casualties, four were caused by a house collapse in Almora and one in Lakhimpur Kheri since Friday night.Official sources said so far 23 districts, over 44.93 lakh people in 7,801 villages and over 94.53 lakh hectares of land, including 5.94 lakh hectares of agricultural land, had been affected by the floods in the state, official sources said.Meanwhile, the sources said, all rivers in the state were receding with their waters flowing well below die danger mark at all places.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿WATER SCARCITY IN BHOPALThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 26, 1960; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 3WATER SCARCITY IN BHOPAL Officials’ Differences“The Times of India” News ServiceBHOPAL, September 25:	Bhopalis in the grip of an acute Water scarcity—worse than the one it experienced last summer—as a result of differences between the Municipal controlled Water Works and the State Electricity, Board.The Board, according to the Water Wofks authorities, had stopped power supply to three pumping stations during peak hours resulting in discontinuance of water supply. Officials of the board, on the other hand, have accused the. Water Works authorities of lack of co-operation.On Thursday night, it is stated, pressure in the reservoirs was so heavy that it posed a threat to the safety of the power plant’s turbines. When the Electricity Board asked the Water Works authorities to relieve the pressure, the latter arc alleged to have refused to comply with the request. Consequently. the Electricity Board officials switched off die power supply.The dispute was referred to Mr. Jag' Mohan \ Das, Deputy Minister. for Local Self-Government on Friday. Till midday yesterday normal water supply had not been restored.28 ARRESTED IN SAHARANPUR Defiance Of BanSAHARANPUR, September 24: Twenty-eight persons have been arrested by the police for alleged' defiance of orders under Section 144, Cr. P. C, and persuading shopkeepers to close their shops in protest against the lathi-charge by the police on the Ramlita procession on the evening of September 22.A partial hartal was observed here yesterday in the main markets of the town.The District Magistrate in a statement to the press said that 21 police personnel, three deputy superintendents of police and two magistrates on duty were injured by brick-bats thrown on the evening of September 22.—P.T.I.Common Script Plea“The Times of India” News ServiceBANGALORE, September 25: The Education Minister of Mysore. Mr. .Anngrao Ganamukhi, said in the State Assembly yesterday that there was need to evolve a common script for the Kannada and Telugu languages. 'He, however, turned down a suggestion that Mysore should take the initiative in forming an inter-State committee to go into the question, but added that the Mysore Government had asked for representation on the committee appointed for the purpose by the Andhra Pradesh Government.U. K. Trade GapLONDON, September 23: Tl>e United Kingdom balance of payments deteriorated in the second quarter of this year, the Treasury 6aid today.The Treasury estimated provisionally that there was a deficit on current account of 9,000,000 sterling compared with a surplus of 96,000,000 sterling in the same quarter last year.—Reuter.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿17 killed: Truck ploughs through Moharram crowdThe Times of India (J86J-current); Apr 22, 1967; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 117 killed: Truckploughs through Moharram crowdPATNA, April 21.SEVENTEEN people, eight of them Hindus, were killed and 89 including 34 Hindus, were injured on the Chapra-Siwan road in Saran district in the early hours of this morning when a truck ran into a Moharram procession, according to an official report received here tonight.	.Mr. Karpuri Thakur, Deputy Chief Minister of Bihar, in a condolence message, expressed the Government’s great distress at the tragedy that befell the procession taken out jointly by people belonging to different communities.Mr. Thakur said the .Commissioner of Tirhut Division and the district magistrate Saran, had proceeded to the place to en'sure medical relief and other arrangements. Medical staff, including specialists, had been'flown to Siwan. Financial relief would be given by the Government. Action under the law had also been taken by the police to bring the offenders to book.The Bihar Governor, Mr. M. An-atk hasayanam Ayyangar, has sent condolence messages.—P.T.I.' -POLICE * 'FIRE * ON - UNRULY MOB 2 die in VaranasiVARANASI, April 21: Two persons were killed and many injured when the police opened fire on an unruly mob in Mohalla Hanuman-ka-Phatak here this afternoon.According to the police, they opened fire when a lathi-charge proved ineffective to disperse the crowd.Earlier, the crowd threw brickbats at the police, injuring 30 policemen and officers, including the city magistrate. Mr. M. M. Verma, and the deputy superintendent of police, Mr. K. B. Singhal.Nearly 20 persons belonging to the majority community were also injured as a result of the stone-throwing.The trouble arose whena procession was taken out for the burial of “tazias” at BhaironArmed police are patrolling the area where the situation is tense.The condition of some of the injured persons was reported to be serious. The burial of the “tazias had not taken place till 7.30 p.m.—P.T.I.“Pravda” on Friday published an article about the publication of the first biography of Lenin in India in 1921, by an Indian journalist, Mr. G. V. Krishna Rao.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿TWO KILLED IN JAMMU POLICE FIRING: ARMED MOB ATTACKS GOVERNMENT ...The Times of India (1861-current); Dec 30, 1952; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1TWO KILLED IN JAMMU POLICE FIRINGArmed Mob Attacks Government OfficePARISHAD AGITATION TAKES GRAVE TURNNEW DELHI, December 29TWO persons were killed and one was seriously injured A when the police fired ten rounds in Sunderbani in Jammu, yesterday, to disperse a 2,000-s^rong “violent unruly mob” a press note issued by the Kashmir Government Information Bureau said here today.The Deputy Commissioner of Sunderbani, Mr.Arjun Nath Sapru, and nine constables received serious injuries as the result of stone throwing by the mob, the press note added.Nearly 2,000 persons, who had been imported from the adjacent “illaqas” and led by local Parishad workers, attacked the Niabat office at 4-30 p.m., according to the press note.A majority of the mob were armed with spears, axes, hatches and lathis.‘‘The Deputy Commissioner of the area, Mr. Arjun Nath Sapru, who was present on the spot and the Assistant Superintendent of Police, Thakur Mahatam Singh, tried their best to prevail upon the leaders of the mob to disperse peacefully but their efforts proved of no avail.” f1 CONSTABLE BeAeNThe mob, the press note added, beat one of the constables with lathis causing serious injuries.They then threw stones, on the officers and police who took shelter in the tehsil building, The mob attacked the ' building, breaking open windows and smashing glass panes. This was followed by a concerted attack by a section of the mob, who entered the' building with a view presumably to causing harm to the officers and men who had taken shelter there. The Deputy Commissioner considered that further forbearance on the part of the authorities would result in greater violence by the mob and put in grave danger the very lives of the officers , and men taking shelter in the building.FIRE ORDEREDHe, therefore, ordered ftre to be opened. In all, ten rounds were fired by the police, resulting in two persons being killed and one receiving serious injury. At this stage the mob dispersed,“The number of policemen engaged in dealing with the mob was 30, out of whom only eight were armed. Serious injuries have been caused to nine constables as the result of stone throwing by the mob. The Deputy ' Commissioner himself has been hit severely by stones.”—F.T.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿4 more killed in AhmedabadThe Times of India (1861-current); Dec 19, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1NEW DELHI, Dec. 18 (PTI).FOUR persons were killed in a fresh outburst of violence in Ahmedabad taking .'today’s toll in the current spell bf communal riots in Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh to 11.-Seven deaths were reported in 'Agra raising the toll in the recent violence in the state to 130, while there was no untoward incident jn any of the curfew-bound districts of the state since last night, i A Hyderabad report said the situation in the riot-tom old city limped :back to near normalcy today after a 1 (Way oigy of violence. Bamng three cases of stabbing, no untoward incident was reported in the city.A fresh outburst of violence in the iwalled city of Ahmedabad during Jpurfew relaxation period led to four {persons being stabbed to death and {injuries to 21.TOINS adds:Two people were stabbed to death in' the Gomtipur area of the city. Within minutes, two more stabbinglincidents were reported from the area.	.In just two hours, the son of a police constable was done to death in the Karanj area, another person was stabbed near the municipal kotha also under the Karanj police station area and one youth was seriously hurt in a stabbing near General Hospital in Bapunagar area.More than eight people were injured in a bomb explosion in the communally-sensitive area of Bhanderi-ni-Pole under the Dariapur police station. The impact of the explosion was so intense that many Walls of nearby houses developed cracks.After the three days of comparative peace, the stabbing spree began again. It also spread to new areas like Shahpur, where one person was stabbed to death.As panic-stricken people made a beeline for the western suburbs, the police re-imposed curfew in Gomtipur Karanj and Shahpur police station areas. Tension gripped the entire city and shopkeepers downed their shutters.By a coincidence, the large-scale violence began in the city when a high-level A1CC team, headed by MrV.N. Gadgil, was touring the riot-atlected areas. When the team reached the Gomtipur and Bapunagar areas, two persons were already stabbed to death and two others were injured.In all, nearly 25 stabbing incidents were reported from Gomtipur, Shahpur Haveli, Astodia and Karanj police station areas, while a powerful bomb exploded in the Dariapur area.One youth received serious stab injuries in the Raikhad area under the Haveli police station, while another person was stabbed near Fernandes bridge in the Stodia police' station area. The re-imposed curfew resulted in traffic jams at several places.However, hundreds of people defied curfew and came out on the streets in Gomtipur to protest against the incidents of stabbing. However, senior police officials rushed to thei troubled spot and brought the situation' under control.PTI add that unofficial sources said three persons were injured in a bomb blast in the Karupur police station area, but no official confirms-' tion was available.AGRA TOLL UP (PTI from Lucknow): Seven more deaths were reported rom Agra, raising the toll ini(Continued on Page 13);Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.4	killed in AhmedabadContinued from Page 1the recent communal violence in thestate to 130 today, even as all thecurfew-bound districts remained incident-free since last night.The situation in all the trouble-torn areas was peaceful, an official spokesman said. That toll in Agra meanwhile mounted to 18.Eighteen people have so far been killed in Agra as four more bodies were;identified today as being those of victims of communal clashes. Two persons succumbed to injuries and one body was recovered.TOINS adds from Aligarh that members of a particular community today boycotted the curfew relaxation period and refused to come out of their houses in the old city. They were protesting against the alleged atrocities by the PAC in that area during the riots.Senior district officials conferred with leaders of the community. The district magistrate said he was confident that from tomorrow there will be no such boycottTHREE HURT (UNI from Hyderabad): Three people were injured in fresh stabing incidents in different parts of the city during the curfew relaxation period today.Two people who went out to buy milk in the morning were stabbed in Tapachabutra area in the old city of Hyderabad, while one person was stabbed in Musheerabad in the new city.Barring these incidents, the situation in the curfew-bound old city including the worst affected South Zone area and the neighbouring Ranga Reddy district remained peaceful and under control, the city police commissioner, Mr M. V. Bhaskara Rao told newsmen this evening.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿A.P. police firing to quell mobThe Times of India (J86J-current); Sep 11, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 7A.P. police firing to quell mobKAKINADA, (Andhra Pradesh) September 10 (UNI): The police fired five rounds in the air to quell mob violence at the temple town of Draksharamam, 20 km from here, on the night of September 8-9.Three shops were looted and a press was set on fire. Three policemen were also injured in stone throwing, the police said.The trouble started when some students of a school, objecting to the interpretation by the teacher of a lesson as derogatory, mustered some people of a community. This resulted in an altercation between people of two communities in front of a police station, disrupting traffic for several hours. As the mob did not heed the advice to allow the traffic to flow normally and disperse peacefully, the police made a mild cane charge.: The mob indulged in stone-throwing, looting and arson, following which the police fired in the air.Prohibitory order under section 144 IPC was promulgated in the town. No arrests have been made.Gazetted officers of Bihar reject planThe Times of India News ServicePATNA, September 10: Bihar state gazetted officers’ association yesterday rejected the proposal of the cabinet sub-committee and the official team to form a separate panel to look into their demands.The proposal came up during the first round of talks between the government and the employees.A state government release, however denied, there was any difference of opinion between the ministers comprising the sub-committee, lire second round of talks was held with the representatives of the Yogendra Singh faction of the non-gazetted employees. The faction is demanding Central payscales on the basis of the Central pay fixation policy. However, the committee suggested that they first sort out issues on which there was differences of opinion. The talks are in progress now with the coordination committee of employees, teachers and officers.UP flood toll rises to 160LUCKNOW, Sept. 10 (PTI): The toll taken by house collapses and landslides in Uttar Pradesh during the current monsoon rose to 160 today with five more deaths reported from different places in the state.Of the fresh casualties, four were caused by a house collapse in Almora and one in Lakhimpur Kheri since Friday night.Official sources said so far 23 districts, over 44.93 lakh people in 7,801 villages and over 94.53 lakh hectares of land, including 5.94 lakh hectares of agricultural land, had been affected by the floods in the state, official sources said.Meanwhile, the sources said, all rivers in the state were receding with their waters flowing well below die danger mark at all places.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿4 dead in U.P clashesOur Staff CorrespondentThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 20, 1983; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 54	dead in U.P dashesBy Our Staff Correspondent' § LUCKNOW, October 19: Thirty, six hours after the violent communal clashes in Tanda in Faizabad district, the U.P. government today admitted the death of four people.They died at 10 a.m. yesterday morning but the state home secretary continued to deny it till lau last night.Contrary to earlier reports, he however, affirmed that there was ni: police firing but only a “mild’ lathi charge. Tear gas shells were also used to disperse the violeni mob, he added.The home secretary, Mr. R. C, Takru, explained today that the district authorities had not been able to contact him till yesterday evening and he had to rely on reports of the “intelligence department” which said there were no deaths.The home secretary said that 12 people had been injured in the clashes and two of them were still reported to be in a critical state. He claimed that no untoward incident had occured after the, curfew, which had not been relaxed till this evening. It was imposed after yesterdays clashes shortly before noon. He said that the township was beihg heavily patrolled by the police and the PAC.According to reports reaching the state police headquarters, violence was triggered when the “Alam” procession was not allowed to pass through the prescribed route as l^urga puja celebrations were being rfld on the same road.The official sources said that rail traffic which was disrupted by the rioters was resumed,last evening and was normal now. Road traffic, however, continues to be. partially affected following tension in Faizabad district.	.	'Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew relaxation proves disastrous: Ahmedabad riotingThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 24, 1969; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Curfew relaxation proves disastrous: Ahmedabad rioting‘‘The Times of India” News Service117'ITH more than 5,000 police pers onnel and 1,000 troops enforcing law and order, mob frenzy was curb ed to a great extent in the bloodstained capital of Gujarat today.The three-hour relaxation of the curfew in the morning proved disastrous. There was a spate of stabbing, loot and arson during the curfew holiday.Twenty people were killed in nearly 60 cases of slab-biug. These incidents were reported mainly from the mill areas of the city where the police opened lire at least live times.The reimposilion of curlew on the sixth day of the massive communal violence—when the death-roll mounted to 500— brought uneasy calm to Ahmedabad. Curfew will be in force till tomorrow morning.The areas affected today were Firdharnagar, Shahpur, Asto-dia, Asarva, Shah Alam, Saras-pur, Gomatipur and EllisBridee.	.Nearly 850 people have been injured and several thousand rendered homeless in the six-day orgy of violence.	•The disturbances in the morning followed a generally peaceful night during which no major incident was reported. With the army^ taking over virtual control of the city and suburbs yesterday evening, the situation had improved. Ihc military authorities were taking no chances and had enforced the cuifew with the utmost strictness.But as the restrictions were relaxed at 10 a. in. in the eastern parts and were removed altogether in the western localities, hooligans were out in force in several areas,busy murdering, looting and ing.Ten people were killed near Sabar-mati railway station and in the Badia Limdi area of Firdharnagar. Five were reported stabbed on Naroda Road, near the new commercial mill.dhrec people were killed in Shah-pur. two by rioters and one by police firing. A batch of four policemen was prevented from rescuing two people being tortured to death by a mob near the new' mental housing colony.	■One peison was latally stabbed near Flits Bridge and another in Shah Alam. Three people in Raipur and two in A-todia died of acid burn*.One person was stabbed at Shahpur where a crowd had collected to buy essential commodities.2.500 HELDT he police fired in the air to disperse a crowd near Nehru Bridge in the morning.'1 hree shops were attacked in the Raipur area. Tension prevailed m the KaJupur area also where -a lew incidents were reported.In one firing at Bchrampura, three people were wounded.'the figure of those arrested has gone up to 2.5(H). 'I he jails are packed to capacity.In city hospitals, the medical staff is working round-the-clock. According to some icports, hospitals badly need additional stocks ol medicines, bandages and blood.one Dies in goiNdaep.T.I. adds; Even as ' the situation here showed an improvement, troops were rushed to another Gujarat town, Ciondal, about 40 km. from Rajkot, where violence flared up this morning resulting in the death of one person.‘Ihc trouble was reported to have sparked when .students were going I round calling for a hartal. Several were injured and one of the two admitted to hospital died.! flic situation was officially report-\ ed to have returned to normal in the afternoon. Mi. ,\1. R. Musanit Swa: (antra leader, ami two other members of the Gujarat Vidban Nabha, said alter a visit lo Gondal that there was complete peace in the town.UNI adds; More security forces would be Mown to Dhoraji as the Slate Government has soneht their help.See I’njje 11Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Tension in Dhaka, curfew onZAGLUL A CHAWDHURY The Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Nov 2, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 1Tension inDhaka,curfew onBy ZAGLUL A. CHAWDHURY The Times of India News Service DHAKA, Nov. 1.THE entire Dhaka city was brought under, indefinite curfew from this afternoon be* cause of the escalating communaltancinnc in thn oanital	'Only parts of the city with a population of five million were brought under curfew last evening but curfew was clamped in the entire metropolitan area from 4 p.m. today as sporadic violence continued in several areas. The President, General H. M. Ershad, told a rally of the ruling Jatiya Pahy here this morning that the government was firm about maintaining law and order and any attack against the minority community members would be seriously dealt with. The government and other offices were declared closed two-and-a-half hours before the scheduled curfew time.Communal tensions in Bangladesh first flared up in the port city of Chittagong on Tuesday evening, apparently as a sequel to the reports that the Babri Masjid in India was stormed by militant Hindu fun-dametalists. Muslim fundamentalists in Chittagong attacked some Hindu temples there and trouble spread to Dhaka and some other places.Authorities imposed curfew in three police stations in the capital yesterday evening where a sizable number of minority t community members live. Today’s’ official announcement said that the entire city would remain under curfew. Mr Ershad told the rally that the army would be called out to maintain law and order.	4Opposition leaders, Sheikh Hasiqa and Begum Khaleda Zia, and the (Continued on Page 11) 'Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.(Continued from Page 1) powerful students’ community, condemned any attempt to disturb the communal harmony in Bangladesh and urged the people to punish mis--creanls for trying to attack the minority community and their properties.There is no scope here for harassing the Hindus on the basis of what is happening in India, they said. The ruling Jatiya Party and several other organisations brought out processions in the capital warning of the evil designs of communal disturbances. Cabinet ministers took part in the peace procession of the ruling Jatiya Party.There were disturbances today in the Nawabpur, Shakari Bazar and Sutrapur in old Dhaka. Some shops, belonging to the minority community were looted. Police and paramilitary forces took positions at sensitive points. Political parties and the others warned against the ugly aheads of communalism. Even the Islamic fundamentalist Jammat-c-Islami said that there is no scope for Hindu-Muslim clashes here although it condemned the communal situation in neighbouring India. Lawyers and others condemned the attacks on minorities.Meanwhile, two persons, who sustained bullets in police firing while attacking the minorities, reportedly succumbed to their injuries.Opposition leaders and independent groups in Bangladesh today criticised the imposition of curfew in Dhaka as a “motivated ploy to distract the people’s movement” and blamed the government for “abettingcommunal violence to fish in troubled waters.Major opposition alliances, currently campaigning the ouster of jPresident Ershad, condemned the violence in Dhaka and Chittagong and said “Vested quarters are out to create disharmony among the people, demanding restoration of democracy iin the country.”TOINS reports from Calcutta: The West Bengal government is worried about the fallout of the violence in several parts of Bangladesh. The situation is under close observation as the impact of the news of communal violence from Bangladesh will be more direct and lethal in West Bengal.The districts bordering Bangladesh have been put on alert to handle any kind of untoward incident or any attempt to create disturbances. The scenario in the districts bordering Bangladesh is particularly sensitive as there are large resettlement colonies of erstwhile refugees from Bangladesh and earlier East Pakistan.These colonies have become the target of various Hindu organisations and the Bharatiya Janata Party has managed to acquire a toehold among the refugees who have crossed over in recent years.The state government is worried that such a volatile population is particularly open to provocation since they suffer from a burning sense of anger born out of their belief that they were forced to leave their homes and seek precarious shelter in West Bengal.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿NEHRU IS MAKING STEADY PROGRESSThe Times of India (J86J-current); Apr 12, 1962; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 6NEHRU IS MAKING STEADY PROGRESS Infection Subsiding“The Times of India” News ServiceNEW DELHI. April 11: Mr. Nehru is making a steady progress towards recovery, according to an official spokesman today.The Prime Minister stood the journey; to and from Rashtrapati Bhavanyesterday , “very well.” . 'Quoting Col. M. S. Rao. Col. R. D.Ayyar and Dr. A. N. Bedi, who have been attending on the Prime Minis-' ter, the spokesman said that during the last five days. Mr. Nehru’s temperature had; been rising only slightly in the evenings. “This is due to the gradual subsidence of the infection, and has been confirmed by the latest laboratory' tests.”	\Dr. K. L. Wig, of the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences, also, examined the Prime Minister this morning.	.Dr. B, C. Roy is being kept informed daily about the Prime Minis? ter’s- health. Dr. Roy is likely to examine Mr. Nehru again within a few days. . •	; .Mr. Nehru is now attending to official papers. at his residence.150 ARRESTED IN CALCUTTA Violent Demo nstrations“The Times of India” News Service' CALCUTTA, April 11; Tlie agitation started here against the publication of a picture of the Prophet , in a book took a violent turn today. The police arrested .150 demonstrators.A procession of 2,000 men was taken out today from central Calcutta to protest against the publication of the picture. Some processionists clashed the shop-keepers who did not heed their call to suspend business for the day.	. . . ■	.	1When the police arrived, the demonstrators threw stones at them. Additional policemen came and chased the demonstrators away. Reports of two other demonstrations and minor clashes were received here. ' •The West Bengal Government announced in . a press note tonight that the book containing the Prophet’s picture had been proscribed and all copies forfeited. It hoped that this action would meet the .grievances of those who were outraged at the publication of the picture.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿2 killed in DelhiThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jun 27, 1992; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 132 killed in Delhi_ NEW DELHI, June 26 (PTI):* »u K'tiauiiB wcic uucu aim several were iinjured in a clash between members of two castes in a NorthEast Delhi locality last night, the police said today.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿One injured in firing at JalgaonThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 10, 1984; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1BOMBAY, September 9 (PTI): One ,person was injured tyheii the. police ffired one ■ round to disperse a stone-throwing mdbyde^^hding/itie^ lease -of/' three persons/ arrested in, cOnpeetion with a' stabbing incident; during' -the. Gariesh .immersion procession in Jalgaon this evening.The; police < resorted to firing when lathi-chdrge.; and . teargassing failed to bring the situation f under control;	•	-■ .	•	.	'l;	■The-collector arid the, superintend dent of police were hit by stones and the lock of the judicial, magistrate’s. office was broken in the mob fury.; ■. :■.	.	\■The stabbing was due to old enmity.According to latest reports, the immersion procession went off and peace restored in the'town.Rest m winning 1 .{. position: Irani' ;NEW DELHI, September 9: Rest of India, needing 107 runs to complete an outright victory over Bombay in the Irani Trophy tie, were 69 for the loss of two wickets.Earlier in the day* Rest of India, after being dismissed for 293, shot out Bombay in their second innings for 163; M^nid* der and Kapii claimed four and three wickets respectively for Rest,- 	■;	,•	■■	.Martina retains titleNEW YORK, September 9: Martina Navratilova rallied from one set down to beat Chris EvertrLloyd 4-6, 6-4, 6*4 to retain the women’s crown yesterday in the U.S. open tennis championships.Top seeds Martina Navratilova and Bam Shriver continu- 1 cd their , remarkable run of success by retaining the women’s doubles title. In the filial^ the American pair beat Australia’s Wendy Turnbull and Ann Hobbs of Britain, the fifth seeds, 6-2, 6-4.In the men’s singles semifinals, Ivan Lendl of CzechoSlovakia beat Pat Cash of Australia in a gruelling five-setter, 3-6, 6-3, 6-4, 6-7, 7-6 and John McEnroe got the better of Jimmy Connors in another marathon struggle, winning 6-4, 4-6, 7-5, 4*6, 6-3.(Details on page 10)Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Communal ClashThe Times of India (J86J-current); Mar 24, 1952; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 7Communal ClashBANAKAS, March 2§:	Thirtypersons were arrested by the police this evening after a fracas among people of two communities.The trouble, it is stated, arose over repairs of a “Sati-Chabutra” adjacent to a mosque at Nakki Ghat here. The repairs Were allowed by the City Magistrate after a mutual agreement between Hindus and Muslims of the area. When the repairs were being carried out to the “Sati-Chabutra” by one community this evening, some persons of the other community objected to it.Allies’ Policy PraisedTOKYO, March 23:	GeneralMatthew B. Ridgway, U. S. Far East Commander, today made public a letter dated March 21 from the- Japanese Premier, Mr. Shigeru Yoshida, which said the U. S. Senate’s ratification of the Japanese peace treaty signified, “a happy consummation of Allied Occupation policy winch has consistently and vigorously aimed at the spiritual regeneration as well as the economic and political reconstruction of Japan.”—P.T.I.-Reuter.Social & PersonalBOMBAY, March 22: The Cover-nor of Bombay received Shrl < Nagindas Master, Shri V. V. Dan- ’ dekar and Shri P. N. Iyer.Mr. Eki Sone, Mr. Kenjin Mat-suzawa, Mr. Eiji Yamashita, Mr. and Mrs. K. Kiriyama, Mr. W. B, Bryden, Mr. R. 0. Buell, Miss Eva Beder and Miss Foote came to , lunch.	;His Excellency attended the ' wedding reception at 1, Wilderness 1 Road, of the son of Shri Dharam- < sey Khatau. Later, he attended the , 25th anniversary celebrations at Nagpada Neighbourhood House. ‘ Rani Maharaj Singh received Mr. 1 C. P. Bramble, Mr. and Mrs. Her- 1 bert Marshall, Shri Ohaitan Anand j and Shrimati Lima Anand.	(BOMBAY, March 23: Rani Maha- ( raj Singh received Lady Jehangir and Dr. (Miss) Jhirad.	*His Excellency played for Oxford ^ in the Oxford vs. Cambridge cricket ] match on the Islam Gymkhana -Ground. Later, he attended the i wedding of the son of Khan Baha- , dur D. K. Irani at Albless Baugh, ' Girgaum.	*The Governor of Bombay and 1 Rani Maharaj Singh dined with I Mrs. Rowland Jones.	.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿One killed in firing on Srinagar mobOur Staff CorrespondentThe Times of India (1861-current); Apr 15, 1982; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1By Our Staff CorrespondentSRINAGAR, April 14.©NE person was killed when the police opened tire today to diisjpfrSe a riotous;mob wnich w£nt on a ransacking spree in the posh Maulana Azad f.oad and Residency Road area of the city today. A large number of persons, including policemen, were injured in strone-thfowing incidents.The mob.; which had planned to move towards the UN office and the local Catholic church, was intercepted by the police-at; the Regal ChoWk crossing. Despite intense teargassing and jathi-chargeSj the crowd refused to disperse. The police then opened fire, killing one person instantly.The mob;'was protesting against the Sunday firing by.an Israeli at the A1 Aqsa mosque in Jerusalem in which one person had been killed.progress of the mobs . through the Maiilaria Azad and Residency roads were halted, some miscreants trickled into the sidejanes.; One of ' the targets of the mobs was the new; shopping complex on the Maulana' Azad Road and a few shops on the Residency Road. Windows of, two banks in the shopping arcade and a printing press on the Residency Road were smashed.The regional office of the Jammu and Kashmir Bank opposite the girls’ college was set ablaze. A shop dealing on consumer goods was ransacked.	'An attempt was also made to set fire to the building housing the PIB and the state information office on Residency Road. Fortunately, the staff detected the fire in, lime and put it out.	-No untoward incident was, however, reported from other district towns of the valley, which too had observed total hartal.Colleges, school and other educational institutions which had opened earlier in the day closed as soon as the mob comprising mainly youths, appeared on the streets. Shopkeepers hurriedly downed shutters after many of them were menaced by the mobs.Vehicles, both private and public, remained off the road. Those that ventured out had their windscreens smashed.Even fire brigade vehicles, responding to distress calls, were not spared. A large number of fire brigade vehicles were damaged and crew members, including officers, injured when the mobs waylaid them.The trouble coujd have been contained if the police had been given clear instructions to act promptly at the first hint of trouble. When theReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Fresh violence in DelhiThe Times of India (1861-current); Dec 13, 1992; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of Indiapg. 28P.M. SIIIRODKARCOUNTRYWIDE TOLL 1150NEW DELHI, Dec. 12.■\ VIOLENCE broke out again in V the capital this morning, even as calm returned to most parts of the country affected by mob frenzy since last Monday over the demolition of the Babri mosque, which has claimed over 1,150 lives so far, including 44 today, reports PT1.An official spokesman called the overall situation across thecountry as far better today, said the violence had so far claimed 1,097 lives.He said 44 deaths were reported today from six states — Assam (15), Bihar (nine), Gujarat (one), Madhya Pradesh (two), Uttar pradesh (14) and Delhi (three). The number of injured was 4,085, the spokesman said, adding that 135 places in various states were still under curfew.Police opened fire to quell violence in riot-hit Seelampur area in north-east Delhi, though there were no reports of any casualty. The toll in the capital, however, went up to 17.The deaths reported across the country today were of those who succumbed to injuries.While the situation remained peaceful in the walled city where curfew was relaxed for two-hours in phases, over 600 people, in-cluding over 500 in north-east and east Delhi, were taken into custody, city police chief, Mr M.B. Kaushal said here.Three persons^ including a couple, were stabbed to death in Balbir Nagar and Durgapuri localities of north-east as stray incidents of arson in Jwala Nagar marred peace in east Delhi.Mr Kaushal said the toll in police firing and arson at Welcome Colony climbed to 14 with police recovering four charred bodies. Three persons were killed in police firing on Monday in Jafarabad.He said barring the incident where mob set fire to two shops and a house this morning in Kabootar market, thi situation in the curfew-bound Jafarabad and Welcome Colony was peaceful.Four persons died1 in incidents of arson, stone-throwing and group clashes last! night in Ahmedabad and in Anand town, raising the death toll to 247 in Gujarat and 50 in the city.The death toll ih Rajasthan rose to 49 with the! recovery of three bodies from the curfew-bound Malpura town, official sources said. The curfew in the walled city of Jaipur and adjoining Shastri Nagar has been extended to December 20.Barring stray incidents, there was improvement in the overall situation in Uttar Pradesh since last night and curfew was relaxed in at least ten towns. The curfew continued in Kanpur and Varanasi. The toll in the violence 8tood at 201 with no fresh casualty reported from anywhere in the state.The official machinery in Bihar today swung into action to implement the Centre’s order banning , five organisations under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.The home secretary, Mr J. L. Arya, said that the feedback from  the districts on the implementation of the ban orders would be available only tomorrow.RJP sources said that the state headquarters offices of the VHP, the RSS and the Bajrang Dal had been sealed this evening as also offices of the Jamaet-e-lslami Hind in the state capital.The toll in group clashes and police firing in various parts of Madhya Pradesh mounted to 123 with the recovery of four bodies from Bhopal today. Ninety six people have died in Bhopal, where the situation has returned to normalcy, police said. Incidents of arson and police firing were reported from several curfew-bound areas.	*Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿M. P. SUSPENDED FOR 7 DAYSThe Times of India (1861-current); May 25, 1962; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 1M. P. SUSPENDED FOR 7 DAYS Defied The Speaker“The Times af India” News Service NEW DELHI, May 24: The Lok Sabha today witnessed the suspension of a member for seven days for defiance of the Speaker’s order to desist from speaking on an issue not on the agenda.The suspension followed seven tense minutes of unrestrained declamation by the Socialist member, Mr. Mani-ram Bagrt, despite repeated admonitions by the Speaker, Mr. Hukam Singh.	NThe Speaker ordered the suspension after members signified by a voice vote their assent to the penalty,. The leader of the Socialist group; Mr. Ram Sevak Yadav, and two other Socialists, thereupon withdrew from the House as a protest.Mr. Hukapi Singh told a startled House that Mr. Bagri had warned the marshal a few days ago that the latter might soon k|C called upon to push him out of the House.The security measures protecting the cx-President, Juan Pcron of Argentina, have been stepped up after the Spanish police learn of a plot to assassinate him, it was learned in Madrid on Thursday.COMMUNAL CLASH IN AGRA12 Hurt: Many Held“Tlie Times of India” News ServiceAGRA, May 24: About 12 persons were injured in a clash between two communities in the Masjit Tala area here tonight.Brickbats and soda water bottles were freely used in tire rioting for about half an hour..Two shops of potters in the area were looted and property damaged.According to the police sources, some persons started a fight inside the hotel and the incident took a communal turn.Several persons, including the proprietor of the hotel, have been takenintn riKfnrfvReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew Clamped On Allahabad Areas: 200 VIOLATE BAN, STAGE PROTESTThe Times of India (1861-current); Apr 16, 1962; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of Indiapg. 1ALLAHABAD, April 15ADUSK-TO-DAWN curfew has been imposed m certain areas of Allahabad city where disturbances took place yesterday resulting in police firing.	_The Additional District'Magistrate said that the prohibitory order issued last night did not have the desired effect and that was why curfew had been imposed.The curfew will * be in force from 6 p.m. today to 6 ta.m. tomorrow and will apply to several areas within the circle of the city police station.The Addtional District Magistrate said that an unruly mob threw brickbats on policemen and on police vehicles on patrol duty this morning.“1 am satisfied that there exists further apprehension of a breach of the peace to prevent which immediate measures are necessary,” he added. •	.	• |30 ROUNDED UP	jiThirty people were rounded up by police today for defying the order under Section 144, CR. P.C., prohibiting demonstrations and the assembly of more than five persons.	_The order was issued following disturbances near the city kotwali last night, in which the police opened fire on a mob which stormed the kotwali.' About 200 people collected in front of Ur, kotwali this morning to protest against the firing. Some of them were stated to have thrown stones at the police who chased them away.Steel-helmeted police pickets were posted at strategic points in the city today.CITY MAGISTRATE HURTForty-eight persons in all had been rounded up by the police in connection with the ^disturbances, it was officially stated tonight.A press note issued by the District Magistrate, Mr. M. S. Das, at 8 p.m. said that the situation was under control and a continuous watch was being kept.About 25 police officers‘and men, besides the City Magistrate, were injured as a .result of brick-bats thrown at them by the mob that had collected in front of the kotwali last night, the press note said. The mob had collected in front of the. hot-wall demanding the body of a person who was alleged to have been beaten to death in the jail.Eight persons received gun-shot injuries in . the police firing that followed. In all 16 rounds were fired, last nieht. the Dress note added.-r I P.T.I. ~Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Move to force EMS Govt. to resign: MalappuramThe Times of India (1861-current); Jul 18, 1969; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 7TRIVANDRUM, July 17. PITHE anti-MalappUram ■ District Action Committee decided today to stop its token picketing pro-.gramme and launch a public campaign for the resignation of the Marxist-led Coalition Ministry.'	:The committee, after reviewing the picketing programme for the .first month of the agitation, felt that it would not be sufficient’ to “undo” the Malappuram district.	.The Government which created the Muslim majority district as a “escu-rity risk for the whole nation” would not scrap it and, therefore, it should be forced to resign, according to the committee.The campaign would be conducted at the ward-level from Sunday to August 2, and extended to the constituency-level from August 3 to 16. At theconstituency level, the committee would ask for the resignation’ of those M.L.A.S who supported the creation of the new district.On August 16, when the new district will be two months old, the committee would organise the campaign for resignation at the district-level.The committee also released today a publication containing ten reasons why the coalition Government' of the United Front should resign.	.Hie committee claimed that 4,400 volunteers, including 400 from outside Kerala, courted arrest during the one month of token picketing.Clash over shouting of slogans: 6 hurtMALAPPURAM, July 17:	Sixpeople were injured in a clash between two groups at Ponnani near here yesterday, according to official reports.Eight shops were destroyed and about half , a dozen buses were badly damaged by supporters of one of the groups. The owner of a private, transport company was a'so said to have been assaulted...............Reports said about 30 Jana Sangh workers took out 'a ‘jatha’ in the town last evening shouting “anti-Malappuram” slogans. Some people asked them not to shout slogans when the processionists reached near a place of worship.	1Following their refusal to do so, there was. a tussle between the two groups. .	,	,	. .• Those who objected to the shouting returned with- reinforcements from nearby Azhikkal and attacked a transport company and several shops in the area, the reports said. A tense situation prevailed till the early hours of this morning when police reinforcements reached the coastal town from the district headquarters of Malappu-ram.The police have registered cases and are Investigating. A strong police party is -now patrOIlihg the area and the situation is now said to be under control.—P.T.l.Mr. Pitambardass, vice-president of the Jana Sangh, accompanied- by Mr. Nana Dcshmukh and Mr. S. S. Bhan-dari, on Thursday called on the Union Home Minister, Mr. Y. B. Chavan, and demanded: appointment of a judicial commission to inquire into the murder of party’s former president, Mr. Deen Dayal Upadhyaya.,Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿STATE BUDGET ON MARCH 27The Times of India (J86J-current); Mar 14, 1962; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 5STATE BUDGET ON MARCH 27 Vote On AccountMaharashtra's budget for 1962-63 will be presented to the new State Legislative Assembly on March 27.On the basis of the budget the Assembly will pass a vote on account. The budget itself is to be discussed at the next session.This procedure is being adopted as it will not be possible to pass the^ budget before March ?0, the brief session that will begin on March 15 being primarily intended for swearing in the newly-elected members, electing the Speaker and Deputy Speaker and passing a vote on account.The coming session will have 12 working days, the first two being devoted to the swearing in of members.The Speaker will be elected on March 17 and this will be followed by the Governor’s address to a joint session of the two Houses of the State Legislature.The Deputy Speaker will be elected on March 20.	.Supplementary Demands will be presented to the Legislature on March 19. Two days each have been allotted for discussion on the Gov--j emor’s address and supplementary demands by the Assembly while the Legislative Council, which will have seven working days, is to have a one-day discussion on each of them.On March 29 the Assembly will discuss the motion for vote on account.Communal Flare-upALIGARH, March 13: Communal tension developed today in Sikandra Rao town, 22 miles from here, as a result of cow-slaughter on the outskirts. Several shops were closed.Stray cases of assault are reported to have occurred In the forenoon. In one of these, a woman was seriously injured.An order under Section 144, Cr.P.C,, has been promulgated and armed guards are patrolling the town.Two persons, involved in cow-slaughter, have been arrested while-about half-a-dozen are absconding.The situation was officially report- J ed to be quiet tonight.—P.T.I.	|Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Two Persons Dead: A Few Are Injured: In Khamgaon ClashesThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 15, 1962; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Two Persons Dead: A Few Are Injured In Khamgaon Clashes“The Times of India” News ServiceNAGPUR, September 14.TWO persons died in clashes sparked off by an incident of stone-throwing at a Ganpati immersion procession last night in Khamgaon; a taluka town in Bul-dana District, according to official reports.A Lew persons weic injured. An old woman, whose hut was set on fire by miscreants, died of burns, while another person. Ram Prasad, who was stabbed. died in Akola. where he was taken to hospital last night.The situation is now umlcr control, it is stated. Additional reinforcements have been rushed to Khamgaon from neighbouring districts.The Deputy Inspector-General ofPolice, Nagpur, is already in Khamgaon.The Collector of Buldana has promulgated an order banning processions and meetings lor eight days in Khamgaon.P.T.l. adds; The disturbances started when two groups clashed in a Ganpati immersion procession. The mob became unruly, set fire to more than 30 houses, broke open a few shops, attempted looting and threw stones and shoes at the police and the passers-by.The police dispersed the mob after firing one round in the air.The police had rounded up more than 30 persons till this afternoon.Mr. M. M. Tidke. Maharashtra’s Deputy Minister for Rural Development, who was on tour of this re-gion, visited the affected area this morning, accompanied by the D.l.G. and the Collector of Buldana.FIVE HURT IN MALKAPUR Police Pickets PostedAKOLA, September 14: Five persons were injured in a clash yesterday between two groups in a Ganpaii immersion procession at Malkapur in Buldana District, according to unofficial reports reaching here.Police pickets have been posted in the town. Malkapur observed a hartal following the clash, these rc-ports added.—P.T.l.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Firing to quell Surat mobThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Apr 24, 1993; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 17The Times of India News ServiceSURAT, April 23: The police fired at least four rounds and lobbed several teargas shells to disperse stone-throwing mobs in the Rani Tala area of the city late on Thursday night, even as an indefinite curfew was clamped in the Atthwa, Chowk, Salaba Trura and Mahidharpura police station areas since yesterday afternoon.Mobs stoned two places of worship, one on the Rani Talao main road and the other on theBhagal cross road and set several vehicles on fire.The police opened fire when teargas failed to disperse the mob. Nobody was killed in the firing.The police imposed curfew in the four police station areas of Surat after sporadic violence broke out in different parts of the city, subsequent to the attack on the rally taken out by sadhus and sants.About 13 state reserve police companies have been deployed in the city to assist the local police.Mr Chimanbhai Patel today said that a Russian handgrenade caused the explosion at railway station yesterday.A special anti-terrorist squad will be formed exclusively for Surat city soon, he said.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Police Open Fire On Mobs In M. P. Town: 10-HOUR CURFEW 32 PERSONS HELDThe Times of IndiaThe Times of India (1861-current); Aug 5, 1961; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 1BHOPAL, August 4.A 10-HOUR curfew was imposed this evening in Vidisha ^ (Bhilsa), 33 miles from here, following what officials described as a minor communal clash on the occasion of a religious festival.The police fired two rounds' but none was injured. Thirty-two persons were arrested on various charges. A prohibitory order under Section 144,Cr. P. C. is in force.According to official accounts received here, the clash occurred when a religious procession encountered a jeep coming from the opposite side. The processionists asked leaders of another community to have the jeep diverted. A wordy exchange followed and a minor scuffle ensued between members of the two communities Qne of the leaders alleged that bis shirt was torn. He called for an immediate trade hartal.In the meantime, the police arrived on the scene and restored order.Special Armed Police reinforcements were rushed to Vidisha from Bhopal to stand by. The latest official reports indicated the situation was under control though tension persisted.P.T.I. adds: Minor cases of looting of shops have been reported from the town.A spokesman of the State headquarters of the Hindu Mahasabha claimed that according to information received by him, two members of the Hindu Sabha-controlled Vidisha Municipal Board, sustained minor injuries in the incident.GOVT. COMMUNIQUEThe Madhya Pradesh Government in a communique issued after midnight tonight on the incident said:“On August 4 in Vidisha a religious procession was taken out as usual.During this procession two leaders of another community happened to be passing along the route in a jeep and as they were held up by the procession, they remonstrated with some of the people in it. There was an exchange of hot words and a slight scuffle. Thereafter there was a' general, closure of, shops and a crowd collected on the route of the procession.”	.“As the situation was obviously tense, the District Magistrate and the Superintendent of Police went to the spot and the existing police arrangements were reinforced.”	■The communique said: “The police force with the District Magistrate and the Superintendent of Police was interposed between the procession and the crowd. When the situation became tense, both assemblies were declared unlawful and the District Magistrate ordered them to disperse. There was vigorous stonethrowing in which the District Ma-1 gistrate and some policemen were in-, jured. Thereupon, the District Magistrate ordered firing to disperse the unlawful assembly. Two rounds were i fired. No one was however injured. I The crowds dispersed. The dispersing crowds assaulted a few persons without, however, causing serious injuries and a few small. shops were: damaged.”“Curfew has been imposed from 8 p.m. to 6 a.m. on August 5. Reinforcements have reached Vidisha and the situation is at present peaceful and vigilance continues” the communique added.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Army redeployed in Bombay areasThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jun 25, 1984; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1The Times olt India News ServiceBOMBAY, June 24.HPHE> army was called out in the Shiv Sena strongholds in Bombay tonight following tension in suburban Bandra (east) and the arrest of a Shiv Sena leader, Mr Manohar Sarpotdar, under the National Security Act.Mr Sarpotdar, chief of the Sena’s shakhas in the eastern and western suburbs, had made an inflammatory speech at a meeting of the peace committee in riot-hit Kherwadi in Bandra (east) a few days back, the police said. Mr Sarpotdar is a personnel officer in Johnson Tiles.The police said the army was being posted in predominantly Shiv Sena areas like Dadar, Mahim, Fa;el, Lalbaug and Worli in Bombay cityand Jogeshwari, a western suburb, in view of rumours and the threat of violence breaking out before id.The army patrol was likely to continue till the day of Id. The army had been withdrawn from Bombayand surrounding areas only a few days back.Meanwhile, Kherwadi remains under night curfew as tension persisted in the area for the fifth day. Five cases of stabbing were reported from the area' today. Clashes between two groups have been taking place in the area since Wednesday and 25 persons have so far been injured.A funeral procession was stoned from some houses in the Government Servants’ Colony during the day, the police said. $ome residents of Kherwadi took out a morcha to the local police station protesting against alleged arrests of innocent people.The police denied the charge and said 50 bad characters from both the communities responsible for the trouble had been arrested. They included youths between 18 and 25 and not boys, as was alleged. Knives had been recovered from the men. The houses of suspects were being searched after sealing off the areas.A taxi driver was stabbed in Kherwadi today and his vehicle damaged.The police said the area was tense today. They said the army had been called out as a precautionary measure. As there had been no end to the incidents of stabbing despite police action including the imposition of curfew.A crowd of Shiv Sainiks, which gathered in front of the Kherwadi police station on hearing of the arrest of Mr Sarpotdar, dispersed after it was addressed by a Sena leader.The police were preparing tonight to face a possible bandh by Shiv Sainiks in certain areas of Bombay,Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Riots spread to PaithanPRAKASH JOSHI The Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); May 20, 1988; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 1By PRAKASH JOSHI The Times of India News ServiceAURANGABAD, May 19.COMMUNAL	violencetoday spread to Aurangabad’s neighbouring areas of Paithan town and Bidkin village where seven people died in separate incidents taking the death roll inthe three Have nf riots tA 9ftvehicles were set on fire before additional SRP companies and police forces could arrive from Aurangabad.The police authorities said tbit the trouble in the town began after the discovery of a body with stab wounds in the morning. Shoot-at-oght orders were issued and an indefinite curfew was damped bn the town.Tension also prevailed in Pimpiekhed and neighbouring villages. The police opened two rounds of fire inih* rnmiiw in Ri/ilrin villflM on theWUCIC IIin Aurangaoau cuy, people were killed till yesterday, two others succumbed to injuries today. Sporadic incidents of violence continued till late in the night.In the historic town of Paithan, 54 km from here, a youth was burnt alive in Nath Galli, while two others died in stabbing inddents in the Rangahatti Galli area. Several houses, shops andAurangabad-Paithan road where 50 shops and houses were gutted yesterday.The minister of state, Mr J. T. Mabjan, and the special IGP in charge of the law and order, Mr S. P. Singh, are camping here.Medical officers treating the injured persons in the government hospital arebaffled by the nature of the stabbing wounds. The: large number of stabbinginddents has also alarmed the police since many of the attacks were made on strangers by adopting the hit-and-run tactics. The medical officers are convinced that the assailants were no novices in using weapons like Ram-puris.Unlike the earlier riots in the city where mobs of rival communities: would challenge each other and attack,, in the present instance the victims werei either unsuspecting strangers, or per-., sons from the weaker section who carnet here in search of work.A vendor, who went out on cycle for repairing stoves in the CIDCo colony, was found dead in a stabbing incident. In certain areas, armed miscreants; entered houses and attacked die inmates. A professor of a local college was a victim of such an attack.A complaint was also made at the peace committee meeting that a large number of externees from Bombay, Thane, Kalyan and Bhiwandi had nowr made Aurangabad their hide-outThe police suspect these anti-socialelements to be responsible for the riots.The chief minister’s decision to ban the entry of leaders of communal organisations was appreciated by leaden of all political parties. However, they felt that the decision had come a bit too late.According to observers, communal tension has been growing in the dty for the last three years, often leading to riots. But very little has been done by the authorities or political parties to tackle the situation.The municipal corporation elections were surcharged with tension as the campaigning was on communal lines. The Shiv Sena won the election, defeating the Congress and wiping out other major opposition parties like the Janata and the BJP.The bitterness created during the elections continued to affect social life. The crisis deepeneded with the success of the Congress in the mayoral pollThe district authorities showed total lack of sensitiveness when the mayoral poll was held on April 17, a day after the Ambedkar JayantL The Shiv Jayanti that followed further escalated tension.On May 17, the day the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court reserved its ruling on a writ petition rhfllli-nging the mayoral election, the police force in the city was inadequate, which led to uncheacked arson and looting. The Shiv Sena activists, frustrated over the election of a Congress candidate, were anxiously awaiting the court’s ruling.Mr Chavan, in feet, expressed surprise over the number of persons present in the court on the day of the ruling.A significant development which took place prior to the court hearing was a meeting held by the Shiv Sena in Aurangabad near the Janata Bazar and attended by its leader, Mr Chhagan Bhujbal MLA.It was held on May 16, a day before of the court hearing. The meeting, attended by the recently elected Shiv Sena corporators, had passed a resolution changing, ' the name of Aurangapura to “Sambh^jpeth.”Our Staff Reporter adds from Bombay: The director-general of police, Mr D. S. Soman, told reporters here that one person died in police firing aroundrnnttimed on Pace 3Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.Continued from Page 15 p.m. today in Bidkin village, about 25 kms from Aurangabad.Two persons who received stab wounds were reported to be in a serious condition, Mr Soman said.In Paithan, the police picked up a suspect in connection with the murder of the man whose body was found near Bharat cinema. The deceased and the suspect were on inimical terms, he said. During a fight on April 16, the fingers of the accused had been chopped, allegedly by a gang led by the deceased.Soon after the suspect was taken in for interrogation by the police, violence erupted and the dashes took a com-munaltura, Mr Soman said.The police have so for arrested 396 persons in Aurangabad. The police were studying the taperecorded speech of the Shiv Sena leader, Mr Madhuknr Srapotdar, who was alleged to have made “inflammatory remark at Aurangabad yesterday, top police sources said.indulge in violence with no effort made by the police for nearly two hours to quell it2	STABBED (PTI from Pune): Two persons were injured in two stabbing incidents in the Kasba Peth area as fresh incidents of arson, stabbing and hurling of “bottle missiles” were reported from sensitive parts of the dty, die police said.A leather works was attacked with bottles in Budhwar Peth area this afternoon and a doth sheet outside the shop set on fire with petrol by some miscreants, the police said.A house in cantonment area was also attacked with bottles.THACKERAY CHARGEThe Shiv Sena chief; Mr Bal Thackeray, has blamed the Congress for the riots. 1Upset by the Shiv Sena’s victory in the Aurangabad munidpal elections, the Congress had instigated the riots to discredit the Sena, he said.Meanwhile, Mr G. M. Banatwalla, Indian Union Muslim League M.P., has described the communal violence in Aurangabad as “a shocking tragedy” and said it was “created by the inexcusable criminal failure on the part of the police and the dvil administration.”He pointed out that though, Mr Chavan, had admitted there was advance knowledge of the plans to create disturbances in Aurangabad on Tuesday, thousands of supporters were allowed to gather at the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court during the hearing of a writ petition filed by a Shiv Sena corporator.Mr Banatwalls said that the mob retumina from the court was allowed toReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Processionists turn violent, 50 hurtThe Times of India (J86J-current); Sep 8, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 6Processionists turn violent, 50 hurtSHIMOGA. September 7 (UNI): About 50 people, including the deputy superintendent of police, Mr Mahadeva Nayak, were injured when a religious procession turned violent here yesterday, the police said,They said the processionists threw stones on shops, damaging some of them. The police resorted to lathi-charge to disperse the violent crowd. Thirty people were also arrested.Prohibitory orders were clamped on the town till this morning. Meanwhile, intensive palrolling_of sensitive areas was on and the situation was under control^ the police said.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Ramdas takes charge of IAThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Nov 3, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 7Ramdas takes charge of IAThe Times of India News ServiceNEW DELHI, November 2: Air marshal S. S. Ramdas took over as chairman and managing director of Indian Airlines today.Air marshal Ramdas (57) had headed the experts’ committee appointed by the government to look into the state of preparedness of Indian Airlines to operate a fleet of Airbus A-320s following the Bangalore crash in February and to make suitable recommendations.The air marshal, who was commissioned in April 195S in the aeronautical engineering (mechanical) branch in April 1955, has over 100 hours of flying experience on various types of aircraft, includinig fighters and helicopters. He. was awarded the Vayu Sena medal in 1970, the Vis^ hisht Seva medal in 1971 and the Ati Vishisht Seva medal in 1985.He has held several key assignments in the IAF and worked, among other positions, as director of engineering at air headquarters and senior maintenance staff officer at western air command headquarters as well as headquarters, maintenance command.The post of chairman-cum-man-aging director had been lying vacant since Mr R. Prasad resigned in the wake of the Bangalore crash. Mr P. C. Sen, joint secretary, held additional charge of die post until the end of June. Since then, Mr Krishna Dev, director of personnel, was officiating as chairman and managing director.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Shoot-at-sight in Sehore; 2 killedThe Times of India (1861-current); Feb 17, 1986; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1SEHORE, February 16 [PH):A twenty-iour-nour cuncw ua» been damped and shoot-at-sight orders issued here, as two persons died and 30 others were injured in clashes today over the “Ramlanmn Rhnnmi” iiiHument.The first clash occurred when a pro judgment procession was allegedly at tacked by a group with stones, swords and guns. The miscreants then resortet to looting and burning of shops ant vehiclesTwo persons were killed and twc others critically injured in firing inci dents at a fish market here. A womat who was, slashed with a sword receivet skull* injuries.The Madhya Pradesh chief minister Mr. Motilal Vora reached here to maki an on the spot study of the situationThe police made a lathi-charge, bursi tear-gas shells and fired in the air tc disperse the clashing groups.Meanwhile, the situation in the in terior parts of Srinagar city, which wen rocked by violence during demon strations against reopening of the Ran Janma Bhumi temple in Ayodhya, ha returned to normal.In Ahmedabad, the All-India Hindi Mahasabha threatened to launch i nation-wide agitation if the authoritie did not check the activities of thosi protesting against the reopening of thiRam Janma Bhumi temple.Addressing a press conference, the Mahasabha secretary, Dr. S. S. Lodha, said the disturbances in protest against the court directive, amounted to contempt of court and those behind the trouble should be taken into custody.“If the trouble persists, the Mahasabha — a militant Hindu body — will launch a counter-stir and a ‘Mandir mukti andolan’ (temple liberation movement) all over the country by mid-’86, he added.DELHI CALM (TOINS from New Delhi): No untoward incident was reported during the two-hour relaxation of curfew in the riot-affected areas here.Hundreds of residents of the congested walled city thronged shops to stock up essentials as soon as the curfew was relaxed.Patna: At least 13 persons were injured when a procession, taken out by a particular community, was brickbatted by miscreants in Bettiah town in north Bihar on Friday, accord-ins to a delayed report.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿MOSQUE-TEMPLE DISPUTE: 89 ARRESTED IN FAIZABADThe Times of India (J86J-current); May 29, 1954; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1MOSQUE-TEMPLEDISPUTE89 Arrested InFaizabad‘ ■ 'FAIZABAD, May 28: Eightyline persons were arrested here oday for defiance of a prohibitory order issued by the District Magistrate.The order, which was issued ■ ra May 26 under Section 744, prohibited members of the Mus-im community from coming mywhere within a radius of 150 fards of; the mosque-temple, . mown as Baberi Mosque or ' Tanam Bhoomi temple.The mosque-temple is in dispute before a civil court which las issued an ihjunction against the State of Uttar Pra-iesh, the District Magistrate. • ;ha. City Magistrate a,nd the Su-serintendent of Police, Faizabad, .. ind five Muslims restraining :hem from removing the idols from the site in dispute and xom interfering with the pujas ; is at present performed.	;The Muslims have gone on : ippeal to the High Court against ■ the civil court’s order.—P.T.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Masjid panel puts off Ayodhya marchThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 13, 1988; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1The Times of India News ServiceNEW DELHI, October 12.f HE Babri Masjid action committee today called off t$e scheduled “march to Ayodhya” on Friday.' The announcement of the com-ntittee decision was made by Syed Shhhabuddin, convener, alter another round of talks with the Union home minister, Mr Buta Singh. The Uttar Pradesh chief mimster, Mr N. D. Tiwari, was also present.Both Mr Buta Singh and Mr Tiwari appealed to Muslim leaders to withdraw their agitation as also the proposed march on October 14 in view of the deteriorating communal situation. in Uttar Pradesh. The home minister also repeated his commitment that the government would take action toexpedite hearing of the title suit over the issue now pending before the Allahabad high court.Mr Shahabuddin said the decision to call off the march was taken in view of the “grim communal situation” prevailing in various parts of the country. The other committee members said that they did not want to incite communal passions and were in favour of promoting communal harmony.An assurance was given to the committee that steps would be initiated for expeditious hearing of the pending title suit in Allahabad high court soon after the festival season in the event of a negotiated settlement not coming through.■ The suit relates to contentions made by both Hindus and the Muslims staking their claim on Ram Jaijambhoorni- While the Muslims claim that the disputed place' ofworship is a 16th century mosque built by the Moghul emperor Babar, the Hindus say that it is the birth place of Lord Rama.The next round of discussion with the Ram Janambhoomi Mukti Yajna Samiti would be held after dussehra.Mr Buta Singh repeated his assurance that if these talks failed to yield results, the judicial process would be expedited.“We hope the government will fulfil its commitment to refer the case to a three-member bench of the Allahabad high court. This will meet the longstanding aspiration of the entire Muslim community,” Shahabuddin said.He said the co-ordination committee had always co-operated with the Centre and the Uttar Pradesh government in settling the dispute through negotiation, but they had adopted a rigid stand.The committee statement reiterated its demand that a three-member special bench should hear the title suit continuously. The case should preferably be shifted to a high court in south India in view of the tension in north India and heard by judges not belonging to both Hindu and Muslim communities.Lucknow (UNl): Two more people were killed in continued violence over the controversy in curfew-bound Muzaffamagar today taking the toll in clashes since yesterday to 17.The army, called out in the town yesterday, staged a flag march today.Two of the injured in yesterday’s clashes in the twon died today. One person injured in a stabbing incident in Khatauli yesterday also succumbed to his wounds.	-Prohibitary orders have been promulgated in Lucknow town to remain in force for two months.Meanwhile, troops, police and personnel of the Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) were patrolling the curfew-bound areas of Muzaffamagar.Reports from the town said incidents of arson continued till the small hours of today. A total of 19 such incidents were reported.	,The indefinite curfew reimposed yesterday following a fresh outbreak of violence will continue, a government spokesman said.The total number of arrests made in Muzaffamagar has touched 400 since Saturday when rioting broke out following a bandh call given by the Bajrangdal and some other organisations on the Ram Janambhoomi-Babri Masjid issue.Seventy-two people have been injured since the outbreak of clashes yesterday, the spokesman said.However, no incident has been reported in Khatauli since re-imposition of curfew yesterday afternoon. A total of 29 people had been arrested there.In Aligarh, an adequate police force was patrolling the five affected areas in the town. The number of arrests since the violence broke out on October 8 has reached 225.Besides, three persons have been detained under the National Security Act.Mr Buta Singh today reviewed the situation with the (J.P. chief minister, Mr N. D. Tiwari, who is in the capital.The Centre has assured all assistance to the state government to restore normalcy in the troubled areas.The next round of talks with the members of the Ram Janambhoomi Mukti Yajna Samiti and other Hindu leaders would be held after the Dussehra festivals.The coordination committee had earlier deferred the march scheduled for August 12 following mediatory efforts initiated by Mr Buta Singh-Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿WIDESPREAD RIOTS ROCK COUNTRY: 220 killed in aftermathThe Times of India News Service;PTIThe Times of India (1861-current); Dec 8, 1992; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg- 1The Times of India News Service & PTINEW DELHI, Dec. 7.AT least 220 people were killed and about 1,000 wounded across the country today in police firing and widespread violence sparked by the destruction of Babri Masjid at Ayodhya,As large-scale rioting and mob fury continued unabated till late tonight, amidst fear of the toll mounting, leaving a trail of destruction.The states which bore the brunt of the tragedy were Maharashtra, accounting for 65 lives, with 46 in Bombay alone, and Uttar Pradesh reporting 35 deaths.The army was staging flag marches in several states and assisting the civil administration in restoring peace. Indefinite curfew was clamped in the worst-affected places.As many as 41 persons were killed and 100 others injured since last night as violence spread to several parts of Gujarat.Ahmcdabad city bore the brunt with the death of 14 persons in police firing, stone throwing and stabbing, leading to imposition of curfew in eight police station areas. The violence also left over 50 persons injured.Police fired 250 rounds to scare away the rampaging mobs which indulged in arson and stone throwing. Two religious places were set on fire in the city, the Gujarat chief minister Chimanbai Patel told reporters at Gandhinagar.SRP forces were deployed in Ahmedabad, besides pressing into service 20,000 home guards to guard the sensitive areas in the city, Mr Patil said adding that the army was asked to remain on alert.In Delhi at least 39 people were killed in communal flare-ups and related violence.	'In Jaipur the army was deployed and an indefinite curfew clamped in the walled city areas and Shastrinagar localities as violence errupted necessitating police firing resulting in death of 22 persons and injuries to 61 today.Four columns of army were deployed in Jaipur, one column each in Kota and Nagore and army had been requested to remain on standby in Ajmer, according to an official spokesman of the state government. He said that the Centre had been requested to rush an additional 12 companies of the CRPF to the state for deployment in the sensitive areas.According to official reports, an indefinite curfew had been imposed since this morning in old city areas of Jaipur, in some parts of Tonk district and in the three thana areas (Krishchangah, Kotwali and Clock Tower) of Ajmer district.Over 25 shops and residential premises were looted and set on fire in Tedhi bazar here today amid reports of sporadic incidents of arson and violence in the twin cities of Faizabad and Ayodhya.A cycle repair shop and a provision store were among the (Continued on Page 11) IReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.220 killed in aftermath(Continued from Page 1)vandalised structures in Tedhi bazar, a kilometre from the disputed structure.A nearby shrine bore the brunt of a frenzied mob which went about ransacking it at will. The shrine walls were also extensively damaged.Altogether five kar sevaks were killed, four buried under the debris of the domes that fell on them and another in the firing incident following clashes between groups in Tedhi Bazar locality and 525 were injured, a VHP spokesman claimed.Curfew was imposed in Ranchi and Giridih towns of Bihar even as two persons, including an assistant sub-inspector of police were killed in incidents of violence and police firing, according to the state home secretary, Mr J. L. Arya.Mr Arya said that an assistant sub-inspector was dragged out of a bus at Ranchi and killed by an irate mob. Curfew was imposed immediately after by the district administration.Widespread violence, arson, looting and stabbing incidents reported in parts of Karnataka has so far claimed one life and left ten persons injured. The state government today pressed the army into service at Bidar and Gulbarga to assist the local administration in the maintenance of law and order.The entire city was put under indefinite curfew today as the situation deteriorated with reports of clashes, arson and looting coming in from different parts of Calcutta, Howrah and South 24 Parganas.Twelve columns of the army have fanned out in the troubled areas. The death toll has risen to four, despite the curfew imposed in the bandh-bound city.The police resorted to firing in at least a dozen places in and around Calcutta. The worst affected areas were Garden Reach, Metiabruz, in ihc south western parts of the city. There was continuing trouble in central Calcutta.Altogether 70 persons have been arrested. The army will not only continue its route marches in the disturbed areas, but will also be static in some of the police stations in the worst affected areas as tension mounted in the city and fear of the violence spreading increased, the chief minister, Mr Jyoti Basu, sought the intervention of the defence minister, Mr Sharad Pawar, to hasten the deployment of the army.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Venkataraman’s Plea GrantedThe Times of India (J86J-current); Apr 13, 1954; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9Venkataraman’s Plea GrantedCASE ADJOURNED■ I III—»III., im—1“Tho Times of India” News Service NEW DELHI, April 12:	Therequest of Mr. S. A. Venkata-raman, former Secretary to the Central Ministry of Commerce and Industry, for the adjournment of the case against him was granted today by the special judge, Mr. S. B. Capoor.Mr. Venkataraman, who was to appear in court today, sent a telegram and a letter supported by a medical*certificate, pleading his inability to be present due to reasons of health. He prayed that the case be taken up on any day after April 25.Mr. Venkataraman is charged with having accepted valuable gifts from two firms of Bombay “as motive or reward for rendering them services in the matter of the issue of import licences and export permits.”Newai Riots“The Times of India” News Service JAIPUR, April 12: The Rajasthan Government last night admitted that a communal riot had occurred at Nawai, near Jaipur, on March 31.Ten Hindus and nine Muslims are being prosecuted in connection with the incident.Tirunelveli Dacoity“The Times of India” News Service TIRUNELVELI, April 12: Thieves broke into the Swami Kariamanickaperumal temple in Tirunelveli on Saturday night and escaped with jewels and silver valued at Rs. 8,500.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Kota riots leave thirteen deadThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 16, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1The Times of India News ServiceJAIPUR, Sept. 15.'T'HE toll in the communal 1 clashes that broke out in Kota, during the procession of Anant Chaturdashi last night, has risen to 13.The condition of at least six of the 63 injured people admitted to Maharao fihim Singh Hospital was stated to be serious. Official sources in the state capital were not able to tell if the casualties included women and children.Forty persons have been rounded up. Meanwhile, the army deployed last night to control the situation is conducting flag marches in the affected areas. Shoot-at-sight orders and the curfew imposed in trouble spots such as Ohantaghar, Ityjaj Khana, Rampura and Ladpura continue to be in force.Even though the army wasdeployed in the town at 11.30 p.m.yesterday and curfew imposed in the1 affected areas, incidents of arson andlooting continued till this afternoon.1 Tension escalated in the Chawani crossing area in Kota after a blast this imoming. According to unconfirmed reports, the police had to fire to disperse the mob. Incidents of looting jand arson were reported from Gothdi Chawani, Nayapura and railway station areas.A shop was set on fire in the Nayapura area at 11 a.m. today. Fifteen minutes before the incident, some youths had gone to the Nayapura police control room and jinformed the police that some anti-jsocial elements were planning to loot shops and resort to arson. The police reportedly did not take any action. Only when the shop went up in flames some police forces were sent there.Announcements are being made jfrom police vehicles patrolling the city asking the residents to stay in their homes. The market wore a {deserted look.The chief minister, Mr ShivCharan Mathur, held a high-levelmeeting at the state secretariat this morning to review the situation.In the clashes, which continued for about three hours yesterday, all kinds of weapons, including gups, swords, daggers, knives, lathis and stones were used by unruly mobs. It is so far not known how many deaths and [injuries were caused by the police firing and how many by shots from the crowd.The crowds near the Ghantaghar, a hub of commercial activity m the town, ran amuck for almost two hours. As many as 100 shops, including the bullion market, were reduced to ashes. Four police vans were set on fire. Even the fire-fighting vehicles which went in response to calls were damaged.The violence was sparked off when a procession to mark Anant Chaturdashi was stoned when it ^reached the Ghantaghar. Members of jone community brandished swords. The mounted police accompanying 'the procession fled from the scene at this stage. The number of policemen accompanying the procession wasvery small and they too carried only lathis.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Violent crowd lathi-charged in HyderabadThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Aug 30, 1969; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Violent crowd lathi-charged in Hyderabad“The Times oi India” News ServiceHYDERABAD, August 29 ri^HE police burst tear-gas squibs,A made a lathi-charge and fired a round in the air in the Charmi-nar area this afternoon to disperse a violent crowd of Muslims.The Muslims,'who were returning in a procession from the Mecca Masjid after prayers, saw a jeweller’s shop kept open' while most other shops were' closed in protest against the Jerusalem mosque blaze. Enraged, they started throwing stones at the shop. ' ■The assistant commissioner of police arrived on the scene and persuaded the processionists to move forward. But meanwhile, there was a shower of stones on the procession from the terraces and roofs of buildings nearby.While tension mounted, the crowd entered Patel Market and tried to set it on fire. This was foiled when the fire brigade and people of the area rushed to the spot. The mob then stoned a police jeep and tried to set a motor cycle ablaze.	.SHOP ATTACKED )A section of the mob entered a lano opposite, broke open a wholesale cloth shop, smashed the telephone and the furniture, and. carried away cloth worth thousands of tupees. . While leaving, they set fire to the shop:According to official sources, two assistant commissioners of police, two sub-inspectors and a constable were injured in stone-throwing. Several others sustained injuries, on account of stones of lathis.Newsmen visiting Charminar found the entire area littered with stones.The Mecca Masjid protest gathering was nearly 100,000 strong. Most shops of all communities were closed. The police have intensified patrolling in the area.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Situation still highly explosiveThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 24, 1969; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 11Situation still highly explosiveAHMEDABAD. September 23: 'the filiation in the riot-torn city alter five days of unprecedented violence is still highly explosive—ready to flare up at U\e sUgUtesX provocation.At least 12 shops were still .smouldering between Delhi Darvaja and Prcm Darvaja on Kasturba Gandhi Road.	‘The situation from Prem Darvaja to the railway station was tense. Many shops around Prem Darvaja were broke open, looted and set on fireA “refugee camp” has sprung up At the police stadium, providing food, shelter and medicine to about 10.000 people.The municipal authorities who have opened a 24-hour dispensary at the camp, were inoculating people against cholera and other diseases.The Gujarat Governor, Mr. Shri-man Narayan, accompanied by the Revenue Minister, Mr, Prcmji Thak-ker, who., is looking after the entire relief work, visited the camp and talked to tbe people.VIOLENT MO*A patient with a broken arm and head injuries in the Civil Hospital narrated how his neighbours, belonging to another community, protected him against a violent mob. Though not knowing where to go, he wanted to run for his life. But the neighbours *aid they would protect him and he would be harmed only after they had been dealt with.As they heard the mob approaching, the neighbours frantically called for police help. But it arrived too late and they were all beaten up.A large number of patients were admitted to the Civil Hospital during the relaxation of the curfew today.The army personnel stationed at key positions were taking no chances. A car carrying the Revenue Minister and the Ahqtcdabad Collector and the State police convoy were stopped. Only when they produced their passe*, they were allowed to go.— U.N.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Communal clash near Junagadh: six people hurtThe Times of India (1861-current); Jul 4, 1980; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 3Communal clash near Junagadh: six people hurtJUNAGADH, July 3 (UNI): Seven people were injured, one of them seriously, in a clash yesterday between two communities at Gadu village, on the Junagadh-Veraval state highway, 64 km from here, according to a delayed report reaching here today.A)1 the injured have been admitted to the Veraval^ government hospital, where the condition of one of them was reported to be critical._ The district collector, Mr. Man-jula Subramaniam, told U. N. I. this morning that the village ’was now peaceful.:	;The district superintendent of no-i lice had rushed to the village with an adequate police force, she added.Life convicts’ plea is admittedNEW DELHI, July 3 (UNI): The supreme court has admitted 6ome more petitions by life convicts challenging section 433-A of the criminal procedure code, 1973, providing for imprisonment for at least 14 years to convicts who are sentenced to, or whose sentence is commuted to life imDrisonment, ’The vacation judge, Mr. Et S. Ven-kataramiah, has also granted bail to. the petitioners, who ■ have alleged. that if the .remission earned by them is taken into account, then they are entitled to release as the period served and the remission period would total more than 14. years.Section 433 A is also alleged to be violative of article 161 read with article 245 of the Constitution in that the power to grant pardons is taken away from governors.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Two die in exchange of fire in AzamgarhThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 16, 1984; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Thie Times of India! News ServiceLUCKNOW, October 15:	Thesituation in the Maunath Bhanjan town of Azamgarh once again took a serious turn with an exchange of fire between the police and the rioters in which two persons were shot dead and three policemen injured seriously today.	i	'	■>The two persons were shot dead at2,30	a.m, are believed to be the alleged killers of the sub-divisional magistrate, Mr Indradeo Singh, who was killed on October 6 while on patrol duty. ,	'According to. reports received here, the incident took place when a police squad was conducting search operations in the Raghunathpura . locality.. When they were entering a particular house, from where the SDM was fired upon, the occupants opened fire on the police, who returned the fire.The identity of the two persons has not .been established so far. The police, however, recovered a .303 mmrifle, believed to have been used in the SDM’s murder, and a countrymade single-barrel gun from the spot.A heavy police contingent was rushed to the spot to take charge; of the situation as the injured; sub-inspector and two constables, who’ .were in the raid party,, were rushed to hospital.An - award of Rs. 2,000 has been announced for the police party which had engaged the rioters,'	'Meanwhile curfew! in . the. riot-torn town is being relaxed in phases. In the past four, days, a three-hour relaxation has been made in five Of the 11 sectors in which the town has been divided. The curfew was relaxed in Sector No; 10 today. The process would continue, an official spokesman said.The number of arrests had gone up to 288. The search operations to unearth illegal arms and arrest of rioters would continue. The situation continued to be tense but was Under control. .	.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Six Hurt In Clash In Jabalpur: SEVERAL CASES OF ARSON: CURFEW IMPOSEDThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 14, 1956; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 5Six Hurt In Clash InJabalpurSEVERAL CASES OF ARSON: CURFEW IMPOSEDJABALPUR, September 13. order under Section 144, Cr. P.C., prohibiting- the assembty of five or more persons and carrying of weapons, was enforced in Jabalpur city today after a communal clash in which six persons were reported tohave been injured.	r~-----------------------------The clash occurred in Mohalla Gohalpur. Three houses were set on fire.Curfew from 7 p.m. till 6 a.m. tomorrow was imposed with a view to bringing- the situation under “effective control at the earliest.”Many Hindu shops remained closed today as a protest against the reported damage to an idol of Ganpati in Mohalla Motinala last night.One person has been taken into custody by the police in this area to prevent a breach of the peace.50 ROUNDED UPThe police rounded up over 50 persons in the Hanumanta area for contravening tne order under Section 144. Cases of brickbatthrowing, arson and damage to residential quarters were also reported. A large quantity of tobacco and manufactured bidi was f and littered on the roadside in a locality where bidi workers predominate.- About 500 students carrying black Hags marched through the main bazars of the town in defiance of the ' order under Section 144, but dispersed after some time.Earlier, in the morning, one or two attempts to loot shops were reported to have been foiled by the arrival of the police.OFFICIAL VERSIONThe Deputy Commissioner,Jabalpur, in a press note summing up today’s situation, said:Certain unfortunate .incidents, mostly in the nature of stray assaults and attempted arson by anti-social elements, occurred ill some parts of the town today morning. Prompt action by the police has prevented any flare-up and the trouble1- has been localised. Although tension prevails in the city, vigilant and strict steps taken by the authorities have restored conference among the citizens. The number of persons rounded up in the clashes is about 15, most of whom have received minor injuries ”—P.T.lReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Gujarat riot toll mounts to 27The Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jul 8, 1992; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 13Gujarat riot toll mounts to 2 7THE toll in the (Jujarat violence has risen to 27 as a woman was killed last night during clashes in the labour-dominated area of 1 Gomtipur in Ahmedabad. The 1 police fired 14 rounds and lobbed ten teargas shells to quell the mob.However, no major incidents have so far been reported from the trouble-tom Shahpur and Dariapur during the 14-hour curfew relaxation today. The situation also remained peaceful in Visnagar and Sidhpur towns in Mehsana district, where the curfew was relaxed for five hours. In Deesa town in Banaskantha district, only the night curfew is in force.Of the deaths, 23 had taken place in Ahmedabad in the wake oi violence that broke out during the rath yatra procession, two in Sidhpur town in Mehsana district and one each in Surat city and Deesa town in Banaskantha district.The Central team of observers comprising Dr Cajendra Kumai Bajpai, Mr Aslamsher Khan and Mr Pawan Kumar today visited the riot affected areas in Ahmedabad. The team was flooded with thecomplaints in Dariapur that the local BJP MLA had incited the violence and the police had failed to protect their properties.^ The team also visited the Shahpur area, which was also one of the worst affected. The minister of state for home, Mr Prabodhkant Pandya, and the Congress leaders and the commissioner of police, Mr M. M. Mehta, accompanied the team members.The police also carried out a combing operation in the Gomtipur area in Ahmedabad and arrested 24 persons. At least five houses were set ablaze in the area and a 30-year-old woman was hacked to death as she tried to flee her house, which was set on fire by a mob last night.Some stray incidents of stonethrowing were reported from Bapunagar and Gomtipur. A stray incident of stabbing was also reported near Madhuram cinema in the Shahpur area.In the Dariapur and Shahpur areas today, all the markets remained open till the evening to enable people to purchase essential items. However tension mounted this afternoon, when rumours about stabbing spread in the city.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Pak hand in Delhi clashesThe Times of India (J86J-current); Nov 16, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 13The Times of India News Service 1NEW DELHI, November 15: Home ministry officials suspect the hand of Pakistani agents in the clashes in the, capital yesterday and today.Certain provocative slogans and the burning of a holy book, the officials state, just cannot be the work of Indians. .The foreign hand, they believe, is very much in the picture now.Certain statement made by leaders across the border and the hostile reaction to the emergence of a new government in India by a politically-motivated section of society in that country were also pointers in the direction of foreign involvement in the clashes not only Delhi but also in Jalandhar, it was said.A strict vigil is being kept now and additional deployment is being done to maintain the peace, ministry sources said.support in HPSHIMLA, Nov. 15 (UNI): The Himachal Janata Dal which split yesterday following the formation of the Janata Dal (S) by seven of the 11 party MLAs, has withdrawn its support to the BJP government in the state.Announcing this to journalists here today, the state party president Mr Vijay Singh Mankotia, said formal communication to this effect would be sent to the Vidhan Sabha speaker on the event of the next session of the state assembly.The Janata Dal’s decision to withdraw support would however not affect the BJP government in the state since the ruling party has 46 legislators in the 68 member assembly.‘Pak hand inDelhi clashes9Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Flashes from poll frontThe Times of India (J86J-current); Mar 14, 1971; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Flashes from poll frontSrinagar:	Mr. Sycd Ahmad Agha(new Cong.) was declared elected from the Barsmulla parliamentary constituency in Jammu and Kashmit.Mr. Shaman Ahmad Shamim (Independent backed by the Plebiscite Pront), was declared elected, defeating Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad, the new Congress candidate, by o7,SdS votes.—P.T.l.■ New Delhi:	Mi. Jagannalii Rao,Union MinAicr. was re-elected to the Lok Sabha from Chatrapur in Orissa.—P.T.l.Curfew in Burhanpur“The Times of India,” News ServiceBHOPAL, March 13: Curfew was extended as a precautionary measure in Burhanpur today. .Four people were killed in police firing in this tehsil town yesterday following a clash between two sections of people during Holi revelry. .According to 'official sources, .14 people were injured.Tile situation in the loan is now stated to be under control.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Saharanpur toll rises to 9The Times of India (J86J-current); Mar 30, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Saharanpur toil rises to 9LUCKNOW, March 29 (UNI & PTI): With two of the injured sue-cumbing to injuries in the hospital, the death toll in Wednesday night’s communal clashes in Saharanpur town has risen to nine.According to an official spokesman here, an indefinite curfew continued to be in force in that town and intensive patrolling by police was going on in the riot hit localities.However, no fresh incident has► See Edit: Inflamed Passions, Page 12been reported from Saharanpur, where the situation was stated to be tense but under control.TOINS adds: The Congress is sending a four-member team to Saharanpur for an on-the-spot assessment of the situation.Led by Mr M. M. Jacob, the party’s chief whip in the Rajya Sabha, the team will submit its report to the Congress president Mr Rajiv Gandhi.Announcing this here today, the , party’s general secretary, Mr H. K. L Bhagat, said certain forces were trying to create communal tensions for their own vested interests. They wanted to bake their political bread on the communal fire, he added and appealed to the people not to let them have it their way.A team of leaders of Janata Dal, CPI(M), and CPI today left for Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh for an on-the-spot study of the communal situation, according to Janata Dal spokesman, Mr S. Jaipal Reddy.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿1 fatally stabbed: 3 huts burnt down in NagpurThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jun 15, 1968; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 11 fatally stabbed: 3 huts burnt down in Nagpur“The limes of India” News ServiceNAGPUR. June 14.REPORTS of the stabbing to death of one person and the burning down of three huts came in at noon today, after five members of the Maharashtra Cabinet had told newsmen that Nagpur, rocked by violent disturbances for the past four days, was coming back to normal.With the stabbing of a man in the Barse area this morning, the total number of people who lost their lives in the mob violence rose to 29.Three hutments were set on fire this morning in Parwatinagar. In another locality, a man was attacked with a spear. He has been admitted to hospital.The Finance Minister, Mr. S. K. Wankhede, the Labour Minister, Mr. N. M. Tidke, the Minister for Forests, Mr. N. K. Tirpude, the Deputy Home Minister. Mr. K. P. Pa til, and the Deputy Minister for Urban Development, Mr. M. G. Agarwal, who had gone round the city last night, said this morning that bazars had opened and business was as usual even in the affected localities.MILL ATTENDANCEMr. Tidke said that attendance in factories and mills had improved considerably. There was 80 to 85 per cent. attendance/ in the two textile mills and other factories in the city.Mr. Agarwal said that buses were plying on most of the routes. Of the total fleet of 65, 40 were put on the road this morning by the State Road Transport Corporation.Mr. Tirpude said that the people were settling down to normal life.Curfew was reimposed in five localities of Tehsil, Lakkadganj, Panch-pavali, Ganeshpeth and Sadar (excepting Civil Lines) as a precautionary measure from 9 p.m. til) 4 a.m tomorrow.Five hundred and eighty-two people were arrested till this morning Hundred bad characters were extemed from Nagpur.	■At/ 4 p.m. a tailoring shop in K.a-mal Chowk in Panchpavali was broken open by some miscreants and looted.Two people passing through Lakkadganj were mobbed by some people. They escaped with minor injuries.In the Gariba maidan, three people threw stones at a party assembled for a funeral. One person was in-jured when some unknown people threw stones at him.Revenue officials contacted 154 affected families and assessed theirContinued on Page 9 Column 5Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿2 more killed in Malegaon police firingA Staff ReporterThe Times of India (1861-current); Jun 30, 1983; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 12 more killed in MalegaonBy A Staff ReporterBOMBAY, June 29.JWO people were killed and three injured in Malegaon today as disturbances continued in this town in Nasik district for the fourth day.The Maharashtra government's home ’secretary, Mr. B. K. Chougule, told newsmen today that the police opened fire four times in the town during the day, even as there were six incidents of arson.Today’s firing took the death roll to three. One man had been killed yesterday.The trouble started in the town, known for its powerloom industryand a large Muslim population, after some people burst crackers in front of a place of worship on Sunday night to celebrate India’s World Cup victory.Nasik town had earlier this month been the centre of conflict between Neo-Buddhists and certain middle castes in the wake of removal of the statues of Shivaji and Dr. Ambedkar.Mr. Chougule said in the last three days the police had fired 50 rounds in 12 incidents in which 15 people were injured* About 40 policemen, including officers, had been injured in stone-throwing. The total number of arrests were 415.Nine companies of the state reserve police were already on the alert in the town and two more were on the way.According to the home secretary, trouble had also spread in a small way to Dabhadi, 10 km. awaV from Malegaon and Zodge, 30 km. away. At both the places, damage had been caused to places of worship.Malegaon continued to remain under curfew for the second day and it would be in force till 11 a.m. tomorrow. Mr. Chougule said curfew had been effectively enforced in the main parts of the town, but sporadic incidents had taken place in overcrowded slums and localities where people found it easier to defy it._ The home secretary said the authorities had succeeded in checking the situation from worsening.Meanwhile, Mr. Nihal Ahmed, Janata MLA, visited some of the disturbed areas in the town. The energy minister, Dr. Baliram Hiray, left Bombay for the town in his home .district.	•; UNI reports from Nasik that three people, including a. nine-month-old girl, were killed and a housewife and two others received bullet injuries in ‘police firings as mob violence spread to fresh areas along the Bomibay-Agra National' Highway skirting Malegaon.' The baby girl was hit by a. stray bullet which pierced the hut were she was lying. The injured housewife, who was also sitting inside a house, was also struck by a stray bullet when the police opened fire to disperse violent mobs.: The police resorted to firing on four occasions at separate, places ; on the outskirts of Malegaon as’ the mobs breached the main pipeline supplying drinking water to the; town and. indulged in arson, throwing stones and brick-bats throughout the day. There was a comparative calm in the evening.The former minister and Janata Party legislator, Mr. Nihal Ahmed, was injured in stone-throwing at Saine village, five km.. from Male-gaon.Dabhadi and Zodge were put under prohibitory orders under section 144 Cr.P.C. after attacks on places of worship there.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Violence spreads in BiharSingh, JanakThe Times of India (1861-current); May 4, 1981; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1By JANAK SINGHBIHARSHARIF, May 3.^POMMONALISM has raised its ugly head again in Bihar, Already it has claimed over 20 lives, resulted in injuries to about 50 people, and provoked arson, rioting and j. looting of houses and shops at different places in mianaa district. While this town, which witnessed furious rioting in the past few days, remains under curfew, the trouble is spreading to neighbouring villages. .. Several, hundred families evacuated to safer places from villages and localities in Biharsharif itself give the lie to the claim that the contagion is under control. Even a funeral procession was reportedly attacked at Adamnagar today.	'According to reports received here, warring groups traded missiles at Lalbagh, Garibpur, Jararpur and Chistipur villages. The induction of para-military forces into these areas so far appears to have had no effect on the militants.Last night, over 100 terrorised men, women and children, some of them with gashing wounds inflicted by lathi blows, bomb splinters or whizzing bullets, were brought to the ‘police station here even as this cor. respondent was befng told by the police chief that “the situation is under control”.That the state government is trying to play down the magnitude of the violence is obvious from the 'statements reportedly made by one of its spokesmen at a press briefing at Patna yesterday. A hand-out issued earlier -when the government had full information about casualties said that only two people had died.. \ ' • .Due to the government’s anxiety to conceal facts, it is difficult to say anything *about the exact number of casualties. Heart-rending stories about missing sons, husbands,-brothers and fathers were heard by this correspondent * in> Several houses, which have overnight become refugee camps for people, fleeing from riot-hit mixed -localities. It is possible that these“missing” people, might be among the 200 taken into custody so far.# The administration could at least inform the relatives of people who have been taken into custody about their arrest to minimise the ordeal of the people now huddling in fear in the refugee camps. However, an official spokesman claimed that in’ quiries made by the police had * revealed that only three people were missing from Alinagar.While on the one hand, the fear-struck refugees have no inkling about the whereabouts of those missing, on the^ other hand they are virtually facing starvation. Many people, whom this correspondent . met apparently had nothing to eat for the last few days. .Barring small groups of armed personnel posted at a couple of crossings in the interior of Bihar-sharif, there was virtually no patrolling in this curfew-bound town yes-One person was killed when the police opened fire to quell an unruly mob violating curfew at the Sohdih area in Biharsharif town of Nalanda district on Sunday, according to dfiicial sources in Patna.terday. With hardly anybody op the streets, the town wore a deserted look. Now and then the eerie silence was broken by country-made bombs exploding at distant places, where despite “shoot-at-sight orders” warring ^ groups were engaged in terrorising each other - by hurling missiles;- ; .	t;VIOLENCE CONFIRMEDSeveral scared residents whom this correspondent met in. deserted lanes said patrolling or no patrolling, warring (groups were engaged in hurling bombs at each other until the Small hours of Thursday night, before iri-defiinite curfew was clamped down on the town. The explosions continued to shatter nocturnal peace agaiin on’ Friday. .“Luckily these are country'-made explosives and do not result in much damage unless aimed properly. However, they do succeed in creating a psychosis of fear from which the whole of Biharsharif is suffering., today. I cannot go out because I fearmy neighbour might stab me”, said one of the scared residents.A round of the curfew-bound town revealed that the administration, instead of healing wounds by rushing help and providing relief to the riot victims, . was, by its inaction, strengthening the wall of suspicions and mistrust dividing the two communities concerned. Here and there, plumes of smoke could be seen rising from smouldering shops or houses set on fire during-the day.A senior official of the district administration, who did not want to be identified, safd, “Why can’t the government hand over the entire area -to the army for a week or so to restore peace?” .He added, “I don’t think the present administration can handle the situation.”Nursing a wound on her arm at the local civil hospital, a young woman who had been evacuated from Jamali Chuk village, said: “For three days, our village remained surrounded by marauders. Since all the villagers were united and hurling missiles at the assailants, we felt safe. As there, was no let-up in the fighting, we sought shelter in a doctor’s house. When the ruffians, with the assistance of some of our own villagers, started looting	our houses,we fled. Had the police arrived yesterday, or even early	today, theycould have scared away the ruffians and at least saved our property. All that we had has been lodted.”It would be, wrong to say that both the communities which had been living happily together all over Nalanda district until Thursday afternoon have been seized with- morbid frenzy to attack each other. Actually, both die communities now appear to be in a vice-like grip of mutual fear. The saner and sensible elements from both sides are trying to defuse the situation or minimise the damage. For instance, several people this; ^ correspondent met repeatedly mentioned the pa me of one Basant Babu of Magra Gaon who had reportedly offered shelter to members of the minority community and tried to help them escape to safety out of the village.A rickshaw puller residing in the Purani Kachcheri locality in Biharsharif, said but for his neighbour, he and his family would have become thew victims of arson. Rajikue skid, “With a gun in his hand, my neighbour pleaded with me to leave my house and seek shelter elsewhere.”A resident of Jawali Chuk village reportedly acted as a goodContinued on Page 9 Column 3Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.Continued from Page 1 Column 3Samaritan to several. families caught in the crossfire of communal frenzy.While several local residents put the blame for the outbreak of violence on RSS elements active in town, the refugees from Jamali Chuk, asked to give the reason for the sudden attack on them, said it vas apparently the result of happenings in Rihnrsharif. Rumours had spread fast in neighbouring villages and suddenly turned lifelong friends into unrelenting foes.Asked to give the reason for the Hidden eruption of violence, an old esident said “It is difficult to give any :xplan?.(ion. There was hardly any’ political' activity or provocative move-nent before the noting began on. Phursduy evening, It could be the remit of deep-rooted, latent animosities.”A citizen inspected by both communities said, “It is difficult to say why the two communities suddenly became hostile. The disaute always starts with liquor, gamb-'ng, graveyards or land. Before any. >ody can do anything about it, it takes t communal colour. Unfortunately, his is the -tradition of this place. But tad the administration been strict and aken effective measures to flush out irms the prertou situation would not lave arisen.”Inquiries revealed that tension be-weert the two communities had been j’uilding up for some time because of i dispute over a graveyard. It is stated hat an idol was installed ip the leighbou rhood of a graveyard in the jagandiwan locality some time aeo. \s this became the cause of friction be-vveen the two communities the administration ordered barricading of the traveyard and also set up a police post tearby. Apparently, this arrangement vas not to the liking of extremists on >oth sides and gave rise to mutual mis-tnderstanding.On Thursday afternoon, in the(Gagandiwan locality a toddy-tapper lhad placed his pot on the ground. This jpot was reportedly carried away by ttwo youths bemfiging to another com-imunity. When the tapper protested, it lied to a brawl. More people collected tthere and the brawl got converted into <a riot. After this, hostile, mobs reportedly started attacking each other. With effective intervention by the {police)' the situation could have been jleait/with then and there. Unfor-Innately, while the law and order machinery was gearing itself tc/meet the ssiluation, fresh violence broke out at might. Th^. authorities apparently felt tlhat clamping down curfew was the , (only way out and, consequently, it was iimposed from 5 a.m. on Friday.Despite the clamping down of; cur-ffew, violence continued unbaled in IMuradpur, Subzabazar, Kona Sarai, IPurani Kachcheri, Alinagar and Jltim INagar localities.WAIL OF VICTIMSThere was more violence wlt^n the {people1 collected at shrines for prayers, /According to official1 sources, at least ecight people, including six women and ai child, lost their lives in the violence con Friday. But unofficial sources claim-esd that the casualties on Friday were llieavier.	,The teenager! wife of a person who ittsed to earn his liv:ng by pasting ce’nema-postcrs said her husband was sstabbed to death jin front of her eyes. /As the assailants swooped on a house, tthey hit an infant born a day ago and sstabbed its mother. In her dying declamation. the mother is reported to have iidentified her assailants.The wife of a hospital chaprasi said Iher husband went out of the house at .3 p.m. on Friday and had not returned ssince. The wife of a rickshaw puller wailed she had not seen her husband ffor three days. The wife of another rickshaw puller said their hutment in IMuradpur tvas set on fire.The 14-year-old daughter of another’rickshaw puller who was due to be irnarried. in a couple of months, burst jinto uncontrollable sobs while staling ithat her entire ‘ trousseau had been looted. A young woman.fell at the ifeet of this correspondent seeking, his Ihelp to trace the husband of her sister-itn-law.. A grief stricken old man burst iinto tears like a child sayVig that his “‘Even if they have- killed him. ‘“Even if they have* killed him; whv ’why can’t lhey give me his body,” A iinason said two of his daughters were imissinc.	: .Apparently, there was total collapse <of law and order in the town giving a {free hand to anti-social elements from Iboth communities. It is difficult to jimaglne how husbands could haVe been ■separated from their wives, sons from itheir fathers, brothers from their setters especially when ihey were running ifor safetv to localities which	were{populated by members of their own (Comirmnit'es. Had the nnlice	beenground, and resorted-to .firing in the tair, such things would not have oc-<curred.on such a scale/ AHe'm'ions were imade by many people of the partisan irole nlayed by the police in certain floenfities,The divisional commiss'oner, Mr. P. |K. Mishra. and the deputy inspeetpr-(getnernl of police. Mr. D. N. Sahav, twho have been camoVia here’since the (outbreak of the violence, denied the i' lvire that the administration had lfa:bd In give protect'On to the peonle.Mr.. Mishra, however, admitted “May Ibe on the first day when the trouble (Started there was hot adequate policing iin some localities. Franklv. no admitris-ttration could have anticipated the (scale and magnitude of trouble which .Erupted here. As soon as; we sensed tthe gravity of the situation, we took {adequate and effective measures. Secu-lrity forces called from outside werf iinducted into the town to keep the {Peace and provide protection to the people.”	'Both Mr. Mishra and Mr. Sahay (denied that any violence had taken place n*nr mosques where the people find collected for the Friday prayers, Thev mainta.Vied that because of the curfew, people could not come out of their houses’. “But some houses were attacked in the Alinagar area. Soon the situation was brought under control.”POLICE VERSIONMr. Mishra mainfained that the trouble started only because of the brawl between toddy-tappers and two youths. He said the graveyard problem, which had given rise to tension earlier, had been sorted out and defused.The Bihar government has had to summon CRPF and BSF contingents to control the situat'on in the town. At 5 p.m. yesterday, this correspondent saw a BSF company staging a flag march in one of the main bazars of the town. ' •Meanwhile, the. chief minister. Dr. Jagannath Mishra, told newsmen in Pgtna today that anti-social elements who tried to vitiate the peaceful atmosphere and create a law and order problem, would be dealt with severely, he warned that anybody found spreading communal disharmony and rumours would be brought to book.The chief minister expressed his anguish oyer the happenings in Bihar-sharif and said it was extremely painful, unfortunate and inhuman. The government would take drastic action against the culprits.Dr. Mishra also announced payment of R,s. 10,000 to the next of kin of each person killed' in the incidents at Biharsharif.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Orissa toll touches 11The Times of India (J86J-current); Mar 28, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 11Orissa toll touches 11CUTTACK, March 27 (PTI).THE death roll in the continuing violence in and around' the curfew bound sub-divisional oftownBhadrakin Balasore with the re-district rose to 11 covery of two bodies in the town and the death of another victim in hospital this morning.' Official reports said that the two bodies were recovered from debris of a house in Chandaii Bazar, where the trouble started over taking out a Ram Navami procession by the RSS on Sunday, leading to violent communal clashes.An employee of a fabrication unit in Cuttack, who was assaulted by a mob at Bhandaripokhari in Balasore yesterday, succumbed to his injuries here this morning, the report said.Five others had also been admitted to the hospital here, including onewith a gun-shot injury. The condition of two of them was stated to be serious.Meanwhile, fresh incidents of arson were also reported from the strife-torn town, where round-the-clock curfew with shoot-at*sight or* ders remained in force for the fourth day today.	•The reports said that miscreants stopped two private passenger buses t about IS kms from the town on the national highway number five this morning and asking the passengers toalight, set the vehicles ablaze.While four cases of arson were reported from the town itself and the nearby market of Charampa last night during the curfew hours, the trouble also spread to rural areasReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Schools boycott plan staysThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jul 8, 1985; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1The Times of India News ServiceAHMEDABAD, July 7.LEADERS of the Akhil Gujarat I Navrachana Samiti and the Vali Mahamandal, which are spearheading the five-month-old antireservation agitation,: have reiterated their call for boycotting schools that are to reopen tomorrow, after the prolonged summer vacation.The two organisations, which had earlier decided to observe a “Gujarat bandh” tomorrow to protest against the Solanki government’s “failure to resolve the reservations issue”, have decided to celebrate “victory day” instead following the “fall” of the government.However, several organisations supporting the government’s reservation policy have assured their backing to its decision to reopen schools tomorrow.	!Meanwhile, two people died and several others were injured in sporadic violenoe in the state today. Both those killed were stabbed in groupclashes in Dholka this evening, following which indefinite curfew was clamped in that taluka town, j | While the situation in Ahmedabad was peaceful, two bufees were damaged by mobs in Surat and at Patan, in north Gujarat, at least three people were injured in group clashes!Last night, the police fired two rounds and burst several tear gas shells to ' quell violent mobs in Baroda. No one was reported! hurtIn' Himmatnagar, a shop was set on fire during the curfew hours last evening and some residential areas were stoned by miscreants today. The police seized some lathis, knives and petrol and arre!sted 11 persons in combing operations.	.They are alleged, to have; committed some atrocities apd arrested innocent ^ persons during the search. According to the police, the situation is under control, but curfew will continue.	!	, |UNI adds: The All-India Students' Federation, at its convention. In Ahmedabad, appealed . to the student* •tb attend classes from tomorrow when the primary schools ! were to be reopened.	j- -j-	■It maintained that I the anti-reservg-tion agitation > could pot be Continued by forcing educational institutions to remain closed,Presiding, over the | function. Prof. Jitendra Dholakiya. a leading economist, said the agitation should be called off. Governnjient' must take effective steps to resolve, the impasse The former judge jof Gujarat high court, Mr. Sajianlal .Talati, felt that those who were preventing sjudentr from appearing for examinations were not “real’’ student leaders. ■ J ■Kliandwa, (PTT): The Union home minister, Mr. S. B. Ctaavanon Sunday said a national consensus bn the reservation policy was necessary and the Centre was making every; effort to arrive at a uniform opinion of all; political parties and j social orgamsa-] tions in this regard. |	1Mr. Chavan told PTI at Opkare sawar, one of the eight jyotirhngam» near here, that the government! woul.1 ! not tolerate collection of i arms at religious places whether in the Golden Temple in Amritsar or elsewhere. Hi* said the army had almost beep withdrawn from Punjab while, it continued in Assam to check 'influx from Bangladesh. •	;	: !Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Tear Gas Used To Disperse Crowd: DISTURBANCES IN DELHIThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jan 1, 1953; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1Tear Gas Used To Disperse Crowddisturbances inDELHINEW DELHI, Dec. 31. Police used tear gas to disperse a procession taken out by Jan Sangh volunteers here this afternoon to protest against the police firing on Praja 'Parishad workers in Sunderbani in Jammu State on Sunday.	.The processionists, who numbered 300, wanted to hold a public meeting in the Hauz Kazi area, a busy business centre in Old Delhi, in defiance of the ban against holding of public meetings enforced there.When the crowd became unruly and tried to break the police cordon in the area the Additional District Magistrate on duty ordered the use of tear gas.The police rounded up 63 persons from the area for obstructing traffic. Forty-two of them were later let off.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿8 more killed in GujaratThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Nov 2, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1iTh*'Times of India News ServiceAHMEDABAD, November 1.i	if	•	■	!	-£171111 unaoaiea violence in uu-i JL jarat today claimed eight “more lives and left 20 injured.« iThe death toll rose to 41 as rioting, arson and looting spread to Vyara and.Bulsar towns of south Gujarat kod Dahod town of the Panchmahals., jvhile four people were stabbed to death in the Khanderao locality of curfew-bound Baroda, two persons -were killed and four injured in police . firing on Sola Road in Ahmedabad this afternoon.1 The army has been deployed at Naranpura here for assisting the civilian authorities in maintaining law and order.An indefinite curfew has been clamped on Vyara town in Surat district this morning following group clashes. Four persons were injured in police firing and stabbing there. Dahod, too, was placed under in-.definite curfew following large-scale arspn and looting.On Sola Road, the situation took a turn for the worse when a 3,000-sirong mob went on the rampage near Parasnagar. The trouble began when the police had produced the accused in the riots at Gomtipur before a magistrate.The mob demanded the immediate release of the accused and indulged in heavy stone-throwing at the police who resorted to a lathi-charge. However, they could not control the .mob and were forced to open fire.Nine rounds were fired, killing two persons on the spot and injuring four. A crowd attempted to attack the .Naranpura zonal office of the Ahmedabad Electricity Company when the police burst IS tear-gas shells. Another mob gheraoed a police inspector near Bhuyangdev cross-road, forcing him to open two rounds of fire.In the curfew-bound Kabadi market area on Gitamandir Road, two persons were injured in police firing when two groups clashed and indulged in arson and looting.The police had to fire eight rounds after bursting 12 tear-gas shells to quell the mob. Four shops were looted and set ablaze there.Two persons were injured in police firing at Rehmatnagar in the ; Bapunagar area following a stabbing , incident The police fired five rounds and lobbed 14 tear-gas shells.The police also fired one round in the air last night at the Kosamba township in Manrol taluka of Suratdistrict to disperse two groups which threw stones, indulged in arson and blocked roads in the town, according to PTI. Over 30 people were injured in the violence, while 35 people were arrested in this connection. The situation was “by and large under control this morning.”A Rajkot report said in Bedi vil-, lage, Jamnagar district, a person was killed and 50 others injured, including the DSP and additional DSP, when the police burst 35 tear-gas shells, and fired 100 rounds yesterday to disperse ap irate crowd. The group surrounded the police and threw stones and soda bottles at them.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿1 killed, 2 hurt in HyderabadThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 19, 1984; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1HYDERABAD, ; September 18 (UNI): A rickshaw puller was stabbed to' de^th apd two persons were injur; ed in the bid ' city during curfew. relaxation period today after three • in. .cideiit-free 'days. .. . . „■ ....• •/With this, the toll in the communal disturbances which broke out on September 9 rose to 22.	.. The city police commissioner said today’s incidents ,were a sequel to the ■ raid on the house and assault of 'a couple belonging to one community last night. Some suspects in today’s incident were rounded up.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Shiv Sainiks held on rioting chargeOur Staff ReportersThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 2, 1974; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 3CITY & SUBURBSBy Our Staff ReportersTHE Mulund police ai rested 15 people, 11 of them Shiv Sainiks'. on cross-complaints' of rioting on Monday. The four others were said to be former Shiv Sainiks.	.The police said that previous cji ■ mity between the two groups led u the rioting in which three peonli ■ ■were injured, the groups used aerat ed water bottles and iron bars Among the arrested were two sliakht pramukhs.The city police also arrested 5'. people from Sun Mill Lane ot charges of rioting in which a Gana pad procession and the dwellers o. a chavvl clashed. Two persons sus tained minor injuries.The police also registered a cas< of rioting against nine unidentifiec men who were stated to have t’nrowr aerated water bottles at anothei Ganpati procession on Lamingtot Road. , .Death after injectionA six-year-old girl. Kamini Situ-rem Jadhav, who was given ar injection of streptomycin, collapsec and later died, the Jogeshwari police told the coroner, Mr. H. J. Chinoy on T uesday.	'	. ■	'_ The police took charge of the injection ampoules and the case papei from Dr. Suresh Tendolkar.Passenger murdered ■A 25-year-old passenger in a Bombay-bound train was found murdered on the track between Safala and Kelwa Road station on September 20.The body had knife injuries on the neck and head. Two tickets with the names, S. K. Dube and Ramdutta, written on them were found in the shirt pocket, the police said. The identity of the man has not yet been	established.Police denialThe police said on Tuesday that Shaikh Mubarak Abdul Rahman, 25, an undertrial.	was taken	to	theSion Hospital	on September	26when he complained of breathlessness and vomiting in the lock-up.He was admitted to the hospital and later died there. The coroner's surgeon, w'ho	performed	the	postmortem, certified that he died of toxemia following- purulent meningitis.^ a natural cause of death. The police denied that the undertrial died of beating.* * *All the slaughtering units at the Deonar abattoir will remain dosed on Wednesday for Mahatma Gandhi Jayanti. No fresh meat will, therefore, be available on Thursday in the city markets.Colaba and Santa Crux, recorded no rain on Tuesday. The season's rainfall total is 2.310.8 nun., 611.9 mm. above normal, at Colaba and1.939.8	mm.. 555.5 nun. below normal, at Santa Cruz.The maximum temperature at Colaba on Tuesday was 32 degrees. C. a degree above normal, the minimum 25 degrees C., two degrees above normal, and the relative humidity was 80 per cent, at5.30	p.m.	’The maximum temperature at Santa Cruz was 31 degrees C. two degrees below normal, the minimum.-25 degrees C., two degrees above normal, and the relative humidity was 80 per cent, at 5.30 p.m.Mr. A. V. B. Mudaliar, until recently deputy commissioner of police, Nagpur, superintendent, railway police, Nagpur, and commandant, State Reserve Police, Jalna, Aurangabad district, has taken over as deputy commissioner of police (armed force), Bombay,The weatherBombay city and suburbs will have cloudy skies on Wednesday, Thunder-clouds are likely to develop towards the night.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿CROWD ATTACKS POLICE PARTY: 25 HELD IN CALCUTTAThe Times of India (J86J-current); Feb 17, 1964; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1CROWD ATTACKS POLICE PARTY 25 Held In CalcuttaCALCUTTA, February 16: Twenty-five persons were arrested in the Benia-pukur area of central Calcutta this evening following a clash between a large crowd and a police party that had gone there to arrest two persons under the Defence of India Rules. JAfter the police had talen 'into custody Mr. Mohd. Salauddin (junior), a municipal councillor, a large crowd surrounded the police party and attacked it with stones and other weapons. The driver of the police van and a constable were seriously injured. The police party immediately left the scene with Mr. Salauddin in custody.	.Later, a strong police force was sent to the spot and it rounded up 25 persons on charges of rioting. The police also took into custody .another Muslim leader, Mr. Mohammed Salauddin, chief administrative officer of the Anjuman-Mufidul-lslam, under the Defence of India Rules.The police also served externment orders today on Maulana Waseem Ahmad, a Badauni maulvi, under the Defence of India Rules. The maulana left by train from Howrah but the police could not give his destination.The police reported two other incidents today—one in the Park Street area and another in Sealdah—in which two persons sustained bullet injuries and were admitted to hospital.In the Park Street area, following a cracker explosion in a burial ground, there was some commotion in which the rifle of a police constable is believed to have accidentally gone off resulting in a shopkeeper being injured.In the Sealdah incident, a police constable was injured by a bullet, but police officials were unable .to throw any light on it.—P.T.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Army out as Bhagalpur toll touches 19The Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 26, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Army out astoll touches 19The Times of India News Service BHAGALPUR, October 25.THE army was called out this morning and shoot-at-sight orders were issued as Gommunal violence here claimed 13 more lives this morning, taking the toll to 19.The entire municipal corporation area and the Nathanagar block have been brought under curfew as communal disturbances that began yesterday continued. According to official sources, 90 people were arrestedtill this afternoon.The official list of the dead includes two women and two children. Twenty-five officials have received injuries and four vehicles have been damaged, according to the district magistrate, Mr Arun Jha.Unconfirmed reports said over 100 bodies were thrown into the Ganga today. .The entire town has been engulfed in billowing smoke. Two places of worship and a number of shops have been set on fire.The entire town has been taken over .by hoodlums. A house in the university area was raided and a girl kidnapped. Two petrol pumps were set on fire. At, Sh'ujaganj market, a number of shops were looted. Since last evening, a large number of children have been trapped in Mount Assissi school and another school at Nathnagar. Till this afternoon, no arrangement was made to escort them tb their homes.UNI & PTI add: Three companies of Bihar military police, one of Border Security Force (BSF) and two platoons of the Centre Reserve Police Force had been deployed.■ Shoot-at-sight orders have beenissued in the troubled areas with curfew being extended for an indefinite period.	\The home commissioner, Mr Jiya Lai Arya described as ‘baseless’ reports in a section of the press today, that five people were killed in Motihari. He said the five had been injured at Dhaka village in Motihari.The recent upsurge in communal violence in several parts bf Bihar casts a long shadow over the Lok Sabha polls as it is likely to make dents in the traditional vote banks of different political parties. ,Political observers said large-scale clashes having communal overtones, which has claimed more than SO livesSee Edit: Politicised Communalism, Page 14this year so far, were bound to result-in polarisation of votes of particular communities.	.Apprehensive of widespread violence in the state during the elections, the government is also worried over the fact that if the situation deteriorated it would be an uphill task to conduct the polls.Meanwhile, the Janata Dal presir dent, Mr V. P. Singh today accused the Congress of drawing up a “diabolical plot” to fan communal violence in different places in a bid to either postpone next month’s general election or use it to its advantage.Addressing a news conference here, Mr Singh said the plan was to build up communal violence till November 8 so that a flash point was reached the next day when the Vis-hwa Hindu Parishad performs ‘shila nyas’ at Ayodhya.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Police Fire On Mob: JAMMU CLASHThe Times of India (J86J-current); Dec 16, 1952; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Police Fire On MobJAMMU CLASHNEW DELHI, Dec. 15.A violent mob, nearly 800 in number, armed with lathis, spears and axes attacked tehsil and police buildings at Chhamb, 50 miles from Jammu on Pakistani border, yesterday in an attempt to hoist forcibly the Praja Pari-shad flag, according to a press note issued by the Kashmir Bureau of Information.Sardar Sohan Singh, First Class Magistrate on duty, tried in vain to persuade the ringleaders to disperse peacefully. The mob instead proceeded towards the police station and when the police tried to stop their entry a section of the mob manhandled the Police Sub-Inspector, Mr. Jaishi Ram.Eight constables were also injured as the result of stones being thrown at them. The Magistrate on duty finding that the small police force was being overwhelmed, ordered fire to be opened in self-defence as also to prevent the mob from indulging in further violence.A body of a victim of Chhamb firing, was brought to Jammu late last night by a lorry driver and was carried today in procession by Praja Parishad and R. S. S. volunteers in some bazars of the city before it was cremated.	..The Government has ordered a judicial inquiry into the incident. The situation in other parts of Jammu is reported to be quiet.—U.P.T.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Gujarat leads in communal riotsASHRAF SAYED The Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Apr 25, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 1By ASHRAF SAYED The Times of India News ServiceAHMEDABAD, April 24.GUJARAT seems to have acquired the dubious distinction of being the most communally sensitive state in the country, if one is to go by the figures given by the Union minister of state for internal security, Mr P. Chidambaram, in Parliament the other day. . _	.	,Out of 184 deaths in communal violence in 1986, Gujarat alone accounted for 92. However, the chief minister, Mr Amarsinh Chaudhary, told the state assembly recently that a$ many as 398 incidents of rioting had taken place in the state during 1986 in which 132 people were killed and 750 injured. This may sound strange because last year was considered to be relatively peaceful after the prolonged anti-reservation agitation during 1985;, which was also marked by frequent communal clashes at many places* including Ahmedabad, Baroda, Broach, Palanpur and Veraval.But these incidents were confined to some major urban centres and were controlled with heavy deployment of the police and paramilitary forces andby imposing curfew. However, the communal virus has been spreading like cancer in rural Gujarat for the last one month, engulfing new areas with each passing day.The chief minister, himself admitted on Wednesday that 32 incidents of communal riots had been reported in the state in the first 20 days of this month.But the government has so far done nothing to contain this dangerous trend. The chief minister has confined himself to calling meetings of high police officials and opposition as well as Congress leaders to discuss the strategy to combat communal violence.In the 20 days of violence, spreading over the districts of Kaira, Pan-chamahals, Sabarkantha and Broach, the police opened 250 rounds of fire and burst 1(X) tear-gas shells, in which 15 people were officially reported killed and several injured. As many as 57 houses and 150 shops were set ablaze during the riots.The calendar of events till April 20 makes a depressing reading;April 1: The Vishwa Hindu Parishad organised the Ram-Janaki procession which was subjected to stone-throwing in Broach town. This led to large-scale violence in which 21 shops, besidesseveral vehicles, were set on fire. The police opened 15 rounds of fire to bring the situation under control. Nine persons, including four policemen, were injured.April 6: At Dhunadhra village, near Dakore, in Kaira district, a minor stone-throwing took place which led to group clashes in which two shops were burnt.April 7: The VHP organised a procession at Matar town in Kaira district which led to group clashes. The police had to open ten rounds of fire to quell the violence.On the same day, the police fired two rounds in Savarkundla town in Bhav-nagar district following clashes between two groups over the damage to a place of worship. Curfew was immediately clamped on the town.April 8; In the same town, (Savarkundla) one rickshaw driver was assaulted and his vehicle set on fire. A shop was also set on fire. The town observed “bandh” for two days.April 9: A major violence broke out in Virpur village in Kaira district following an attack on the Ram-Janaki procession. The police fired 112 rounds after bursting 42 tear-gas shells. In the clashes and the police firing nearly 13 people were killed. Some dead bodies were reportedly taken to Rajasthan bythe fleeing mobs, the police said. Five fire-fighters and one tempo were set on fire.April 10: Four houses were damaged in the tiny village of Undra in Pan-chamahals in a minor clash. At Lalsar village in the same district, property was looted from a house which was later set on fire. At Chori village, also in the district, a house was attacked and looted and at Kidia village four shops were set on fire.On the same day, the police fired 13 rounds to disperse rampaging mobs in Thasra town in Kaira district. Two people were injured in the firing and two shops were destroyed in cases of arson. An indefinite curfew was imposed in the town.April 11: The Virpur incident has had its echo in Borchhpli, a nearby village, where a house was set on fire. At Kot and Nakhso villages, in Kaira district some religious places were attacked.April 12: Two people were killed when the police fired nine rounds to disperse an armed mob which attempted to enter Virpur village, to settle scores with a rival group. At Utni village in PanchamahaJs district, four houses were ransacked by a group of people. Nine people were injured whenContinued on page 9Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.Gujarat leads in riotsContinued front page 1the police fired three rounds. Some houses were also attacked and valuables looted at Wakhtipura in Pan-chamahals district.April 15: The police fired 81 rounds at Dhunadhra village, near Dakore, in Kaira district, to disperse rampaging mobs indulging in stone-throwing and arson. While three people were injured in the police firing, eight were injured in stone-throwing. Sixteen houses were reduced to ashes in this tiny village.On the same day, a religious procession was attacked at Prantia in Sabarkantha leading to group clashes in which nine persons were injured. The police fired four rounds and burst seven tear-gas shells to disperse the clashing groups.April 16: At Saltan village, near Dakore, three houses and three huts were set on fire.April 17: Two shops were set on fire at Dhesia village in Panchamahals district. An indefinite curfew was imposed at Cambay town which witnessed group clashes. Next day also some incidents of violence were reported from the town.April 19: An indefinite curfew was imposed in certain localities of Nadiad town in Kaira district following group clashes and incidents of arson.April 20: Violence again broke out in Cambay town when a scooterist dashed against a pedestrian, which led to group clashes. The police fired seven rounds before bursting eight tear-gas shells. Two shops were also set on fire by the mob.These are the incidents which have been taken from the police record. There are many unrecorded incidents. Hundreds of people have migrated to “safer places” in the wake of violence in small villages and isolated hamlets.It is high time that the state government gives some serious thought to the increasing incidents of violence not only in the urban centres but also in the rural areas of the state.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Four die in firing as CPM stir turns violent in CalcuttaThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 1, 1970; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Four die in firing as CPM stir turns violent in - Calcutta“The Times o£ India” News ServiceCALCUTTA, August 31.'p’OUR people were killed and four injured in police firings in north Calcutta today in connection with incidents over the CPM’s call for resistance to the “repressive” measures adopted by the Government to frustrate the party’s programme lor the observance of Martyrs Day.In most of these incidents CRP and State_ police personnel were attacked with bombs as a result of which 12 policemen, including the deputy commissioner of police, north Calcutta, were injured. The police fired 44 rounds and burst five rounds of tear-gas shells. More than 50 people were arrested.With private and State buses off the road and tTams plying on some selected routes in south Calcutta for a part of the day only, normal life in the city was'affected to an extent.Practically no trains could run in the Sealdah division of the Eastern Railway because of interference with the track, including the removal of fish-plates and overhead wires, at some places. As a result, thousands of commuters could not come to the city.ATTENDANCE POORAttendance in Government offices and private firms was poor, and many offices, including the State Secretariat, closed early so that the employees could return home before nightfall.Because of the absence of the ma-jarity of the staff the Reserve Bank could not function, and payment' of salaries to the Stale Government staff was not possible. No business was transacted at the stock exchange.The situation was comparatively calm in the industrial suburbs of the city from where no major incident was reported. The CPM had called local bandhs in a dozen places in the industrial belt. According to official sources, the bandhs were successful in areas within 24-Parganas district, but not in Howrah and Hooghly districts.According to reports received at the Secretariat, the bandhs were successful at Belgliaria, Dum Dum, and Baranagore of 24-Parganas district, but they totally flopped at several places in Hooghly district.In Howrah some factories w ere closed. Out of 69 jute mills in the State, six did not work.ARMY AID NOT SOUGHTThe only incident of attack on army personnel was reported from Baranagore where a bomb was thrown at a jeep in which some army personnel, including an officer, were travelling.A jawan was slightly injured. Two people were arrested.TTie aid of the army was not, however, sought anywhere. The police commissioner of Calcutta, Mr. RanjitContinued on Page 9 Column 3Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.Processions taken out in Calcutta defying banContinued fromGupta, said this was because the civil authorities did not feel the seed for it.The most disturbed place in die city was Bagbazar, in north Calcutta, where CRP and State police personnel were repeatedly attacked with bombs, bombsIn one of die Incidents, nearly 150 bombs were thrown at policemen. Mr. Gupta described this as ' the “heaviest fusillade” of bombs on record.It is reported that shortly before noon some bombs were thrown at a CRP truck passing through the area resulting in .injury to a policeman. More bombs were thrown when another police party arrived. The police fired 17 rounds resulting in the death of two people,, one of them said to be a Naxalite. In another incident, in the same area, the police fired five rounds.Another serious incident occurred near Hatibagan Bazar. A policeman was injured when bombs were- thrown at the police picket posted there. The police fired four rounds. Two people injured in the firing -were carried away by the rioters and taken to hospital. Both were later reported dead. One of them was a CPM activist,-ac-cording to the party. The Centre of Indian Trade Unions said at' night that three people had been killed in the Hatibagan firing.Beliaghata, in east Calcutta, was another trouble spot. Barricades were put up on several roads in the area,Page 1 Column 7and police parties were attacked when they tried to remove them. Several policemen, including the deputy commissioner of north Calcutta, were injured when bombs were thrown at a police party trying to remove a barricade on VIP Road to Dum Dum airport. The police fired six rounds and burst three rounds of tear-gas shells to disperse the attackers. _ On the same road, an Indian Airlines bus was attacked and attempts were made to set it on fire. The miscreants dispersed with the arrival of the police. A seat of the bus was partly burnt and two acid bottles were found inside the vehicle. t Several processions were taken out in different parts of the city in obvious defiance of prohibitory orders under Section 144 Cr. P.C. five of these were dispersed by the police.HELL LET LOOSESumming up the day’s incidents in the city, the police commissioner said hell had been let loose with bombs.He said the bombs were thrown obviously by CPM supporters, Naxa-lites, and anti-social elements. _ The general feeling in official circles was that the stem preventive measures taken by-the—Government-had paid dividends. The CPM made no attempt to carry out its threat to stage a massive demonstration” in the Delhousie Square area, or to hold a meeting on the maidan.Nearly 2,000 Santhals had, in the morning, arrived from Birbhum district by train presumably to participate in the proposed demonstration. They were stopped at Howrah station, and they returned after some time. Another big procession was stopped by the police in the souhtem outskirts of the city. The processionists squatted for some time and then dispersed.The CPM, on the other hand, claimed that its call far resistance bad become successful. The proposed demonstration in the DaHiousie Square irn tuftiilrl have caused dislocation in a part of Calcutta for about two hours. But because of the Government action, life was dislocated for a whole day in the entire State.P.T.I. adds: The commissioner of police has rescinded the prohibitory order -under Section 144, Gr. P. C. from the entire city and suburbs of Calcutta with effect from tomorrow, except in certain areas, according to press note tonight The order will remain in force in certain areas under Hare Street police station and in areas under Belighata and Manicktola police stations where it was enforced before Saturday.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿ORGANISED FORCE BEHIND RIOTS: GUPTA'S STATEMENTThe Times of India (J86J-current); Oct 9, 1961; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 5ORGANISED FORCEBehind riotsGupta’s StatementContinued from I’nge 1 Column 3 |Dchra Dun. The situation in these districts was under control.Mr. Charan Singh. Home Ministei. today attributed the communal disturbances in the western districts of the State, to an ‘‘organised attempt by some politicaPparties. He told newsmen that certain communal orgunisa-ions were exploiting the “unfortunate situation for political ends.Mr. Singh said that an attempt to disrupt communal harmony was being made with an eye on the general election. The Government was studying means of putting down communal elements with a strong hand. Law and order would be maintained at all costs.The Minister said the police lorce in the State was not sufficient to deal with such an unprecedented situation. Asked to sum up the situation, he said it was “not satisfactory so far.” He. however, added that life | was returning to normalcy in some riot-aifected towns.Mu/uffarnagar: Educational institutions here have been closed till October 22 and inmates of hostels asked to leave the city. Most of them have already left for their homes.The dusk-to-down curfew and t (he restrictions imposed under See. 144,Cr. P.C.. continue. No untoward incident was reported today.Saltaranpur:	Ninety persons wererounded up ‘today in this district. This brings the number of arrests to 130.The main Ratnlila procession was taken out in the eveningP.T.I. adds:Aligarh: Improvement in the situation at Aligarh was maintained today and no incident was reported during the past 24 hours. The curfew was extended by 12 hours up to 6 a.m. tomorrow morning after a short break during the day.Seven persons were arrested by the police today in connection with two stabbing Incidents in the city yesterday The victims are reported to be progressing.Moradabud: Seventeen more persons were rounded up in Moradabad district yesterday, bringing the total number of arrests so far to 170, including 75 at Chandausi, 60 at Moradabad,20 at Sambhal and 12 at Amroha, according to Mr. S. V. S. Juneja,District Magistrate.—P.T.I.Lucknow: The Chief Minister, Mr.C. B. Gupta, said here today that there was an organised force behind the rio' in the western districts of UP	.Mr. Gupta, who returned here today from. a tour of the riot-affected districts, said in an interview that the Government was determined to crush the riots and had taken positive steps in that direction.—l.N.S.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Ban order as riots rock Sangli, MirajOur CorrespondentThe Times of India (1861-current); Apr 2, 1983; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1By Our CorrespondentSANGLI, April 1PROHIBITORY orders under section 144 Cr. P.C. havs been clamped in Sangli and Miraj and the state reserve police called in to help the local police restore law and order following the outbreak of violence in the two towns last night, which continued today.The police resorted to a lathi-charge today to disperse rival stonethrowing mobs who also tried :o loot some &hop£. Two scooters anc auto-ricbJhnws were damaged in the violence and this provoked autorickshaw drivers to go on a flash strike. They blocked all roads in the city with their vehicles.	_Mr. Shivajirao Deshmukh, iminister of state for home, who is on a tour of the district, visited the riot-hit areas and assured a peace committee meeting here that the goverwmnt was determined to prevent such violence and goondaism.A number of people took out a procession to meet the minisler and demand the release of those arrested in connection with the violence. They were told by him that the aulhorities were instructed to take appropriate action.Our staff reporter adds: Tlte statepolice control room personnel in Bombay claimed tonight that normalcy has been restored in Miraj and Sangli.Eleven persons, including five policemen and three Hindu Ekta Andolan volunteers, were hurt in clashes yesterday.	-According to the police, a teacher, Mane, who conducts a coaching class, complained to the andolan about his being allegedly assaulted by one Salim Atarwarkar on Tuesday. Yesterday, around 11.00 a.m., a group of andolan activists were proceeding towards. Mane’s classes when they were accosted by a group led by one Maula Tailor and a free-for-all ensued, the police stated. Cycle chains and iron rods were freely used. Two of the persons injured were passers-by the police added. Nineteen persons have been arrested.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿MANY REPORTED KILLED IN ANTI-HINDU RIOTS IN E. PAKISTANThe Times of India (1861-current); Apr 30, 1962; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1KARACHI, April 29,POUR persons were reported killed'ill Rajshahi and man;more in Dacca in frenzied anti-Hindu rioting caused b) the publication of a grossly-exaggerated account of the incidents in Malda (West Bengal) in Pakistani newspapers and high!) inflammatory speeches by Pakistani leaders.About 15 houses belonging to the minority community are understood to have been burnt down in Rajshahi by the rioters.	<An equal number has been looted during the riots which began on Tuesday after a week of intense anti-Indian cam-paign in East Pakistan.The Indian Deputy High Commissioner in Dacca and the Assistant High Commissioner in Rajshahi are believed to have taken up the matter with the Pakistani authorities.Huq who died on Friday.Lt.-Gen. Azam Khan, Governor of Easi.Pakistan, flew io Rajshahi on Tuesday and launched ' a tirade against India on the alleged “massacre of innocent Muslims” in Malda.They are stated to have been assured that curfew would be imposed and action taken	againsthooligans.The Deputy High Commissioner is reported to have been mobbed by hooligans while he was	motoringback from the Dacca Medical College Hospital after paying his homage to the memory of Mr. FazlulGovernor’s TourCALCUTTA, April 29: The West Bengal Governor, Miss Padmaja Naidu, and the Home Minister, Mr. Kalipada Mukherji, left here by train today for Malda.Alter a two-day tour of thealfected by Naidu will visit —P.T.I.recent disturbances, Darjeeling, it isareas , Miss learm.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew continues in UP townsThe Times of India (1861-current); May 24, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 3Curfew continues in UP townsMEERUT, May 23 (PTI).THE situation in Meerut, where indefinite curfew was imposed following poll related violence on May 20, continued to be tense, senior administration official said today.The district magistrate, Mr G. C. Chaturvcdi, said curfew would continue in view of the tense situation prevailing in all the 13 police circles of Meerut city and the cantonment.Mr Chaturvcdi said police and paramilitary forces have been given powers to open fire at anti-social elements indulging in arson and looting.So far 324 persons had been taken into custody for violation of curfew restrictions.Meanwhile, a paint shop was set ablaze by some miscreants in Khainagar Bazar yesterday. The police and fire brigade controlled it.The toll in violence here since poll day on Monday has risen to 32 with the death of five more people.The senior district officer Mr Ra-jbir Singh said three labourers were killed by a group of youths yesterday while one of those injured on Monday died in hospital. An unidentified body also was recovered.Of the 41 injured, eight have been listed in critical condition.TOINS adds: The outbreak of communal violence in Meerut could have been avoided had the state government and the police heeded intelligence reports.	.This was disclosed by intelligence sources who claimed that they had repeatedly warned the government at least a fortnight ago.They are also learnt to have indicated the possible involvement of some BJP leaders who wished to provoke a communal po|ari^tion towin the elections.According to the sources, trouble began following visits by the general secretary of the VHP, Mr Ashok Singhal, and the BJP leader, Ms Uma Bharati.The public meetings addressed by them and later by Sadhvi Rithambhara provided the spark to ignite the tense atmosphere.The senior district authorities also did not bother to implement the measures designed by senior police officials after the riots of 1987.The toll in pollrelated violence in Sarain Aqil, a township about 40 km from Allahabad has risen to four with one more person succumbed to injuries today.Mr V. K. B. Nair, DIG Allahabad range, said that situation in the town was tense but under control. Adequate police force has been deployed and patrolling of police and PAC' intensified, he added.In Kapur, troops and para-miliary forces maintained strict vigil in the riot-affected areas of the city while the indefinite curfew in parts of seven police station areas continued for the fifth consecutive day today.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Central housing corpn. mootedThe Times of India (1861-current); May 31, 1969; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of Indiapg. 10Central housing corpn. mooted‘,‘The Titties of India” News ServiceAHMEDABAD. May 30: A central autonomous corporation may be set up to find ways to end the housing problem in rural and urban areas, said the Union Housing Minister, Mr. K. K. Shah, here yesterday.Mr. Shah said Housing Ministers ail the three-day conference to be held at Bangalore on June 18 would discuss the issues raised by municipalities, various housing boards and State Governments.About slum-clearance in Ahmedabad, Mr. Shah said the Centre had given grants instead of loans to the States. It was for the State Government to seek more help, if needed.■ Mr. Shah, who is also Minister for Health and Family Planning, said a sufvey would soon be conducted to study the people's attitude to the family planning drive as a step towards its improvement. .Increased participation of non-official institutions and personal in the family planning campaign would be the aim of his department.Plan to aid defaulting farmers: ’69-70 kharifBy A Staff ReporterThe Government of Maharashtra has worked out a scheme, in consultation with the Maharashtra Stale Co-opcra-tive Bank, to provide financial assistance to the farmers, who arc genuine defaulters, to fulfil the district-wise production targets for high yielding varieties during the lS<>9-70 kharif season.The object of the scheme is to see that genuine farmers do not suffer for want of financial assistance and that the pace of the agricultural programme is not hampered, the Government stated on Friday.The Government has also instructed the district officers to bring the difficulties experienced by the farmers in implementing the programme to the notice of the Commissioner for Co-operation and the Registrar of Co-operative Societies.The officers have also been instructed to extend all possible assistance to the district central co-operative banks and the primary agricultural societies.Rival groups clash 1 15 people hurtBy A Staff ReporterQuiet has returned to Tcrogfiur village and adjoining localities, three miles from Bhiwattdi on the Bhiwatrdi-Kalynn Road on Thursday, following a clash between two rival groups on Wednesday night.Seven people belonging to both the parties were arrested. The clash was caused by the refusal of a truck driver to give a free lift to a group of people.The driver pleaded inability because of defective brakes and proceeded to Kalyan.The seven people, stated to be drunk, were alleged to have thrown stones and two people, of Temghui village, were injured.Residents of Temghur village . rushed in large numbers and stone-throwing was resorted to by both sides,A place of worship was damaged by the stones. Fifteen people were injured. One was taken to a Bombay hospital.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿6 killed, curfew in UP townThe Times of India (1861-current); Dec 6, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1LUCKNOW, Dec. 5 (PTI).THE’ toll rose to six in the curfew-bound	Gan-jdhundwara town in Etah district with recovery of two more bodies today, an official spokesman here said.The town which witnessed clashes between two communities yesterday remained incident free today, he said, Indefinite curfew continued in the town where 130 persons had beer arrested in connection with the clashes.Two of the victims were burnt to death. About 60 shops and houses were gutted.He said tension had been prevail* ing in the town due to a scheduled public meeting of the BJP MP, Ms Uma Bharati. According to an estimate. nronertv worth more than Rc40 lakhs was damaged in the clashes.Quoting a report from Etah, the spokesman said Ms Bharati had addressed other scheduled meetings in the district and would leave for Mathura.I KILLED IN GUJARAT: The army staged a flag march in Godhra town in Panchmahal district and indefinite cuifew was imposed on Padra town of Baroda district following renewed rioting in which at least one person was killed and several were injured.The Gujarat chief minister, Mr Chimanbhai Patel, told reporters that the situation in Godhra town was tense. The army had to stage a flag march as unruly mobs set ablaze several shops and indulged in heavy brickbatting, he said. Five people were killed in the town last week during rioting.In Padra town, the police fired several rounds and burst tear-gas shells to disperse rioters. In heavy stone throwing, a home guard sustained injuries. At least one person died during the clash between mobs and the police. The chief minister said 19 people had been arrested.Additional forces had been rushed to the affected towns, Mr Patel said.Meanwhile, five BJP leaders led by the state unit president, Mr Shankarsinh Vaghela, undertook a fast at Godhra in protest against the killing of some women teachers last week in riots.According to reports from Baroda, about eight roadside cabins and two shops were set on fire at Padra. The district magistrate, Mr Tapan Ray, said riots broke out after a mob started looting and burning shops.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿2 killed in U.P. communal clashThe Times of India (J86J-current); May 4, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 72 killed in U.P. communal clashLUCKNOW. May 3. (PT1): One person was burni alive and another shot dead in a communal clash in theDcwat township in Bulandshahr district official reports here said.The clash took place as one person was shot dead in a dispute and 300 members of a community came out and bumf four jeeps, killing one of their occupants.The situation was officially stated to be “tense” but under control”. An additional police force had been deployed.Stay on U.P. medical college ActThe Times of India News ServiceNEW DELHI, May 3: The Supreme Court on Wednesday stayed the operation of the Allahabad high court judgment on April 8, by which it had quashed the King George Medical College (takeover Act).The chief justice, Mr Ranganath Mitre, passed the order following a mentioning by counsel for the UP government, Mr Gopal Subra- mani-am.The Act fixed 58 years as the superannuation age for the employees of the medical college and its affiliates.Mr Subramaniam submitted that the state government would extend certain concessions to the affected employees such as not being forced to retire before 60 years of age transferred.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿2 killed, 60 injured in post-poll clashesA Staff ReporterThe Times of India (1861-current); Mar 12, 1973; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1By A Staff ReporterrpwO people were killed and several injured when the policefire, in the Parel and Kamathipura areas of central Bombay on Sunday nieht to disperse mobs indulging in looting and arson.Three police officers and a constable were also injured in' the Kamathipura clashes between Jana Sangh and Muslim League supporters celebrating their civic election victory.The situation was brought under- control by midnight after the police opened several: rounds of fire and burst tear-gas shells.The State Reserve Police were also called to patrol the areas.The police said that the trouble started at the junction of Foras Road; and Falkland Road, near the Daulat Talkies, when processionists of the Jana Sangh and the Muslim League clashed. Tt was alleged that the Jana S'angh supporters shouted provocative slogans.LORRY SET ON FIREFive chawls, a lorry and. a restaurant were set on fire by miscreants in Kamathipura third street and Shuklaji Street.	:The fire brigade rushed to the area and put out the fire. The injured were admitted to the Nair Hospital.According to Dr. M. K. Patel, 60 people were brought to the hospital, of whom 20 were admitted. The condition of, three people including a police officer, was serious.In the Parel incident, around 9.30 p.m. processionists, said to be Shiv Sainiks returning from a meeting at Shivaji Park, were involved. 'would Insist on other corporators singing it.Brickbats, aerated water bottles and stones were freely used in the clash near the Surya Cinema. .The police fired three rounds and burst two tear-gas shells to disperse the crowd.The police said after midnight .that 12people said to be Shiv Sainiks, had been arrested.LOOTING REPORTEDIn the Kamatipura area, the trouble began at 9.15 p:m. and quickly spread to the Playhouse area where Tooting and incendiarism were reported. Some parked taxis were also damaged, it was learnt.- Trouble was also reported from Baply Road.A man was killed instantly and a boy died in the 'Nair Hospital of bullet. injuries, the police said. .The city police commissioner, Mr. S. G. Pradhan, told this reporter that police reinforcements had been rushed to the trouble spots and the situation was under control at midnight.-Several meetings were held on Sunday evening by the Muslim League, the Jana Sangh - and the Sena to celebrate civic election .victories.' A Muslim League	meeting atMa.danpttra went on past midnight without any incident, the police said.A Shiv Sena rally at Shivaji Park was slightly disturbed when there was a stampede towards the stage. Mr. Thackeray, who-’ was addressing the rally, appealed to. the audience to;keep decorum.	.Mr. Bal Thackeray, Sena chief, had earlier told the rally that his party corporators would sing ‘Vande Mata-ram’ at the beginning of the first meeting of the corporation. The SenaThe police said that two of the'* police officers injured in the Kamathipura clash were Inspector Surelewala of the Lamington Road police station &nd Sub-Inspector Desai.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Article 2 -- No TitleThe Times of India (J86J-current); Oct 5, 1961; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 7STUDENTS QUIT HOSTELAligarh DisturbancesContinued from Page 1 Column 4of the town which present a deserted lookShops are closed and business is at a standstill.Meanwhile, two persons are stated to have been stabbed at Kher Village, 12 miles from here.A few other cases of stray stabbing have been reported from other villages. However, Mr. R. K. Bharadwaj, Commissioner of Agra Division, who toured the affected areas, said that the situation was under control.Col. B. Ii. Zaidi, Vice-Chancellor of the University said in an interview that he had appointed a com-miuee to investigate the circumstances that led to the disturbances.He admitted that the elections to the Students’ Union this year were fought on communal lines.The Vice-Chancellor suggested that the constitution of the Students’ Union should be so amended as to provide for proportional representation.Col. Zaidi described the incidents, involving loss of life, as unfortunate. He added, however, that perfect harmony prevailed in the campus. He praised the district authorities for their timely action in giving protection to the students.There was still much excitement at the Ziauddin Hostel, the scene of Monday’s disturbances. Students belonging to one community left the hostel this morning. They said that unless the trouble-makers were arrested there could be no peace.GUPTA INFORMEDIn the meantime, five of the ten students admitted to the University Hospital were discharged today. Four others have been admitted to the civil hospital. The only student remaining in the University Hospital is stated to be out of danger.The Chief Minister, Mr. C. B. Gupta, now away at Madurai attending the A.I.C.C. session, has been apprised of the situationP.T.l. & I.N.S. add: One hundred and twenty five people, including a man with a stolen gun, have so far been arrested by the security authorities at Aligarh following yesterday’s incidents.According to details now available, there was one major incident yesterday when a crowd of about 8,000 including some students, came from the city side and made an attempt to cross the railway line and rush towards Aligarh University, but it was intercepted and dispersed by the police by the use of force.• Some incidents were reported from Chandausi, about 50 miles from here, in which students were involved. No details of the incidents, however. were available.A number of M.P.s arrived here on a fact-finding mission. They were Maulana Hifzur Rehman. Maulana Abdur Rehman and Mr. Ansar Har-vani. At the invitation of Col. B. H. Zaidi, Mr. K. D. Malaviya, Minister for Mines and Oil. reached here in the afternoon to discuss the situation arising out of yesterday’s rioting.Mr. Joshi, District Magistrate, said that the University authorities “were doing their best to restore good relationship and were co-operating with the local authorities in maintaining law and order inside the University campus.”Hapur: Shops were closed here today in sympathy with those killed and injured yesterday in the communal disturbances at Aligarh.A procession was taken out by students through the main streets of the town shouting slogans.—P T.l.SITUATION UNDER CONTROLLucknows The U.P. Government considers it unfortunate that the Aligarh University authorities should have failed to postpone elections to the Students’ Union even after it became clear that the contestants were canvassing openly on communal lines.A spokesman of the Home Department of the State Government today told “The Times of India” News Service that the results of the elections, announced on Sunday, worsened the situation which had become tense as a result of the pre-poll campaign.He said the situation at Aligarh was now under control. The Government was, however, worried over student strikes in some towns of Western U.P. following the Aligarh disturb, ances. .Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew violated in tense MeerutThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Apr 18, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1LUCKNOW, April 17.rHILE incidents of curfew violation occurred in Meerut city today, tension prevailed in Kasganj township of Etah district in the wake of communal clashes in Bilgram village on Wednesday night resulting in injuries to nearly 100 persons.Thecity in connection with the rioting and as a precautionary measure.Etah,tense atmosphere in , Faizabad and jaunpur districts was further vitiated by rumours running riot.One person sustained head injuries as a result of stoning between two groups of people in the Khatta Road locality in the curfew-bound Lisadi Gate area in Meerut city this morning. Exchange of brickbats was also reported from some other curfew-bound areas of the city.The situation in Meerut city was surcharged with tension and groups of people were seen at various points as word spread that a headless body had been found. The police recovered the body of a man from the vicinity of the Faiz-e-Am college near Jali‘ Kothi in the curfew-free area and said he was not a victim of the communal violence.Talking to reporters, the home secretary said that adequate arrangements had been made to prevent any untoward incident. He said nearly 208 persons had so far been arrested in theOn Wednesday, members belonging to two communities had indulged in heavy stone-throwing, besides lobbing a few grenades resulting in injuries to several persons, six of whom were hospitalised.The trouble was stated to have followed an eve-teasing incident. The police deployed at an Ambedkar Jayan-ti function in Kasganj was rushed to Bilgram village soon after the incident.In Ayodhya, a fresh wave of tension gripped the people today as word spread that some “objectionable material” was thrown inside a place of worship. The authorities, who had already deployed the police in strength following th'& acts of arson in the township on Tuesday, investigated the “rumour” and pacified the people.GUJARAT PEACEFUL (PTI): T1 situation in the riot-hit areas of Kail and Panchmahal districts in centr Gujarat was reported to be peacef today, with the complete lifting < curfew from Dhunadara village sin< yesterday.KEEP OUT POLITICS (UNI fror New Delhi)-. The Babri Masjid-Rar Janambhoomi dispute can be solve-only by talking to deeply religiou people” among Muslims and Hindu; and not to “politicians in religion”, th former information minister, Mr I. K Gujral. said today.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Eight killed, 50 hurt in Delhi clashThe Times of India (1861-current); May 6, 1974; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 150 hurt in Delhi clashNEW DELHI/ May 5. IGHT people-were killed and 50injured in a clash between groups belonging to two communities in the Sadai: Bazar complex in tlife old city this afternoon.The arfny was immediately' alerted and the BSE called in. Curfew has been clamped in. the area from 5 p.m. to 9 a.m. tomorrow.According to eye witnesses the police opened lire after tear-gas shells failed to disperse the .violent mob.Among the injured Was the DIG of Delhi range, Mr. V. P. Manvahi and 15 other police personnel; Ten firemen including a tire officer also sustained bullet wounds.The. trouble is said to have started over. a quarrel between two persons in the Azad Market.	'SHOPS GUTTEDNearly 100 shops and houses in the area were gutted in .the incidents, or arson which followed the clash.Two ears and two scooters were also set on lire.The riot-affected areas included Kasabpura, Sadar Thana Road. Azad Market and Kisiianganj Chowk., f ifty arrests have been made so far.Mrs.' Indira Gandhi, and the Union home ‘minister. Mr. Uma Shankar Dikshil. visited the rio!-torn areas o!: Sadar Bazar tonight.--P.T.1.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿States NewsThe Times of India (1861-current); Jun 3, 1984; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 7Mr. Hari Mohan, has been transferred as joint secietarv tor revenue. Mr. T. < N. Srivastjva has been made district magistrate ot Fai/abad. He was deputy development commissioner previously.Mr. C. George Joseph, who was until now district magistrate of Meerut, has been made managing director of the state textile corporation. In his place, Mr. L. R. Singh has been appointed. Mr. Singh was until now secretary ot the public service commission.The joint development commissioner of Meerut, Mr. B. D. Gupta, has now been made district magistrate of Tchri in place of Mr. V. K. Sinha, who has been transferee! as district magistrate ot Saharanpur.The district magistrate of Saharanpur, Mr. L. K. Gupta, has been made managing director of the state warehousing corporation.SHOT IN ENCOUNTER (PTI): Sudhir Yadav, son of an Aligarh Muslim University professor, was killed in an encounter with the police after the youth in an attempt to loot a house in the refugee quarters here shot and killed a member of the household.The police said Yadav and his three accomplices stormed into the house at Mohalla Nai Basti with some criminal motive and faced with resistance from a young member ot the family, opened fire.The police reached the spot and a fierce encounter ensued, which lasted over four hours. In the process, a police 6ub-inspector, Mr. Digamber Singh, a head constable and a constable received serious injuries. A passerby was also hit by a stray bullet. The police are on the hunt for the three accomplices.i number of his kith and kin mbraced him affectionately on his arrival.PondicherryLalla Ram-Sri Ram gang was expected Gujarat to indulge in violence in Asta,This fact had been brought to light MILL ' COLLAPSE CASE (UNI):^ a ,^aD^a- ieader of the area, Mr. -pbe gurat city police on Friday filed Satyadeo Tripathi who is a former a chargesheet against the owners and minister of state. When contacted Mr. builder of a local mill building Sa*j be along with seven wbich collapsed nearly three years ago, Mallah residents of Asta and three tilling 98 people and injuring 105. local advocates met the SP on May Tbe charge-sheet was filed in the 22, four days before the massacre, and COurt df the first class magistrate, submitted memorandum demanding Mr> K. j Shah> on lhe basis of the deployment of the P.A.C. there in view rep0rt submitted by the government-of,the threat of a dacoit raid.	appointed Rane commission, whichMr. Tripathi said the names of this held the three proprietors and the delegation had been entered in the contractor responsbile for the collapse visitors’ register kept in the SP’s on julv 9 19^ office. Five of these seven residents The recorded statements of as many of Asta were shot dead by the dacoits as 590 witnesses were also filedon May 26.	before Mr. Shah, who ordered furtherThe dacoit gang itself could be said actjon 0n tbe matter. to have given indirect warning to thepolice of the killings, but the officials Andhra PrudCSll ignored it. According to reports, the Lalla Ram gang raided Bijalpur vil-MILLS TAKE-OVER (UNI): The l 'Centre has approved the proposal to : set up a Pondicherry Textile Corpora- \ tion here to take over the Anglo-Frenh Textile Mills.The Pondicherry Lt.-govemor, -Mr. Kona Prabhakara Rao, who has been appointed governor of Sikkim, said on Friday, his last day in office, that the proposed corporation would take over the mills in October.Mr. Rao will assume charge as governor of Sikkim on June 6.POLICEMAN SUSPENDED (TOl NS): Mr. Ram Rattan Dhawan, SHO of Nasifabad police station in Ajmer district, has been suspended following a maigsterial inquest and a CID inquiry into the alleged death in police custody of a 45-year-old vegetable vendor, Sundari.	_A case of murder under section 302, 1PC, has been registered against the SHO on the basis of reports submitted by the deputy inspector-general of police (CID), Mr. V. K. Than-vi, and the additional district magistrate, Mr. Narhari Sharma, who had conducted separate inquiries into J10 allegation.Mr. Thanvi and Mr. Sharma, in their reports, have prima facie found Mr. Dhawan guilty of having tortured Sundari to death.The post mortem report listed 23 injuries sustained by Sundari during interrogation in the police station. However, both the CID inquiry and the pots mortem report disproved the allegation that Sundari was raped.Sundari, a vegetable vendor of Ratn-sar village under the Sadar police station of Nasirabad, was taken into i>o-lice custody on the midnight of May 22 in connection with the murder of a 13-year-old girl, Sairi. _ Sundari, who was implicated in the alleged murder case by the principal accused, Ramkanya, was allegedly tortured in the lock-out and succumbed to injuries in police custody around 5 p.m. on May 23.West Bengal,	,	,	,	. NOT IN VIEWFINDER (TOINS):lage, three km. from Asta and merci- The fjrS{ indjan cosmonaut, Squadron-lessly beat up the Mallah resents Leader Rakesh Sharma( tried tothere on May _3. _	photograph from his orbiting space-Mr. Tripathi claims that residents of craR bis borne city of Hyderabad but Asta again approached him on May c0ldd not locate it.24, after hearing of the incident in ide also tr;ed bis camera 0Q bis Bijalpur. As he could not personally home state of Andhra Pradesh. To accompany them, he gave them a bim, the most colourful areas of reference letter so that they could meet the g]obe were the continent of tte SP. According to him, the residents Africa and «of course,” India, again met the SP the same day.	The Indian cosmonaut and his col-, According to a copy of the applica- ]eaguC) Wing-Commander Ravish tion submitted to the SP on May 22, Malhotra, who arrived here on Fri-the villagers apprehended that the day in an jndian Air Force air-gang would go on a killing spree in Cj-afti were given a civic reception at Asta. They stated that the gang had Bahadur Shastri stadium in the threatened to kill ten to 12 Mallahs. evening The Andhra Pradesh chief in Asta to avenge the killing of three m;n;ster Mr. N. T. Rama Rao, Thakurs in Romai village in Jalaun by reCe,ved them on behalf of his Jagdish Mallah_ on May 21.	Telugu Desam ministry.The application also refers to a.	Speaking in three languages oneprevious raid of the gang on the* after the other, Mr. Rama Rao end-village in March, when it killed ones ed bjs welcome to the son ot Parshu Ram on the charge, that he Telugu Nadu” bv describing squardon was a police informer. The SP, how- ]eader Rakesh Sharma as one who Over, did not take any action.	bad brought glory aifd honour to theMeanwhile, the police have still noi: city tbe “state and India, obtained any clue about the where-	Ia a press conference earlier, theabouts of the gang. Combing opera- jndjan cosmonaut said the most tions are continuing in the Kuthonth, interesting part of the space flight was Sikandara and Rampura areas.	tbe feeling of zero gravity. He believ-OFFICIAL SHAKE-UP (TOINS) : ed space travel would soon be a daily, The UP government has announced if expensive, affair and an Indian transms of some district magistrates manned space flight would be possi-and others senior officials in a movts ble in the near future. ^ to make the administration more effec* Asked about his fluency in Telugu tive.	Squardron-Leader Sharma _said heA member of the U.P. ievenu<e spoke it when he was in Vijayawadi board, Mr. P. R. Vyas Bhiman. has in 1965. ‘‘Now, Russian comes out,’ been appointed its chairman in place be remarked.	.of Mr. Maheshwar Prasad, who has For him it was a heart-warminj retired. ,	return home. Apart from his parentsThe district magistrate of Faizabad, who had met him earlier in DelhiReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibitedPLEA TO BASU (TOINS): As the stalemate over the six-week-old strike in Ananda Bazar group of publications continues, some 60 leading citizens from the fields of education, arts and culture have appealed in an open letter to the West Bengal chief minister, Mr, Jyoti Basu, to intervene so that the publications can re-appear, (The chief minister, has in fact done so, but without any success yet.)The intellectuals have argued that the developments have created the impression that, despite the popular government in West Bengal, the conflict is basically political and a handful of employees are bent on “throttling” the newspaper group.“We are not one with this group on every issue and situation; but we feel everyone has a right to express one’s views freely. We hope and believe, you will come forward to uphold that right,” they urged the chiefminister.	'1 DEAD IN FIRING (TOINS):: One man was killed and three others were seriously wounded when the police opened fire to disperse a mob which had attacked the police with stones and other weapons at Ranina-gar village in Murshidabad district on Friday.	> #Immediately, paramilitary Eastern Frontier Rifles and Border Security Force contingents were deployed in the area. However, the latest reports suggest that tension still persists. _ Construction of a place of worship on a piece of government land is said to be at the root of the trouble. ' As construction progressed, the dis-■ trict administration went to court and 1 obtained an order for demolition.' This order was sought to be enforced on Friday morning in the pre-' sence of district officials. Soon t ! large crowd collected and attacked \ the demolition party and the police When tear-gas shells failed to hav< the’ desired effect, the police fired ter ’ rounds.	,> Meanwhile, the land reforms minis . ter, Mr. Benoy Chaudhury, directe< a minister of state, Mr. Abdul Bar Biswas, to rush to the spot and tak< some political initiative along witl other local leaders. Mr, Bari himsel is from Murshidabad. without permission.
﻿Police-Mob Clash In U.P.: One KilledThe Times of India (J86J-current); Sep 12, 1954; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Police-Mob Clash In U P One KilledBUDAUN (UttarPradesh). Sent. 11.One person was killed and two others were injured when a police party, escort* ing the Muharram in the village of Naithua in this district, on Thursday, fired two rounds to disperse an unruly crowd armed with lethal weapons.The crowd, which obstructed the procession, clashed with the police party, injuring two constables with swords. It later set fire to three houses and hurled stones and brickbats at the police. The police earlier had made a lathi charge to disperse the crowd Which, however, became more aggressive.A dusk-to-dawn curfew has been clamped down on the village by the district authorities for a week.The situation, according to a press note issued by the District Magistrate, is now normal and the affected areas are being patrolled by members of village defence societies and armed constabulary.—P.T.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿QUARREL ENDS IN STABBING: HOLI REVELRYA Staff ReporterThe Times of India (J86J-current); Mar 10, 1955; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 3QUARREL END IN STABBINGSBy A Staff Reporter |a quarrel oeuveen a group of Holi revellers and two passers-by at Kapad Galli, Mahartouii, on Tuesday night, resulted in one of the latter receiving Itnife injuries.On Wednesday, the Boihbay police, received at least two complaints of extortion by tlitp re-and £harvellers from shop-keepers passers-by in Bandra and and reports of several incidents of throwing coloured water on pedestrians and passengers in buses.Sattoo Janu, a 22-year-old worker, who was returning home with a relative after taking food in a hotel, was watching a group of people taking part in dances and music at Kapad Galli when some one threw coloured water on him.On his raising objection, it was stated, a quarrel ensued between them and the revellers, in the course of which he was given fist blows by some people and ultimately stabbed. The injured worker has been admitted in J. J. Hospital. No arrest has been made in this connection.Workers, who were in a holiday-spirit, were seen moving about in the city and suburbs throwing coloured water and powder, dancing and singing.Holi is celebrated in honour of Lord Krishna’s sportive s\ringing. The day was a public, post and telegraph holiday and the banks and commercial firms remained closed.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Violence in Belgaum unabatedThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Apr 12, 1992; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Violence inBelgaumunabatedBELGAUM, April 11.ON the sixth consecutive day of continued violence, a 2-1 -hour curfew has been imposed onBelgaum in a bid to check thegrowing incidents of arson, stabbing and looting in the city.While a dusk-to-dawn curfew has been on since April 6, the district authorities stepped up the action following a bomb blast in a residence late last night. The blast lolled two persons on the spot and a third, a woman, succumbed to her injuries at the civil hospital today. Nine persons have been killed, including a police constable, and 52 have been injured in the last week. Over 178 persons have been arrested so far in preventive action.The stale home minister, Mr Dharam Singh, who toured the city and visited affected areas for a personal assessment told newspersons here today that the riots appeared to be planned and organised. He estimates the damage to property so far at “over Rs 1 crore.”	’Earlier Mr Singh announced a payment of Rs 50,000 to the relatives of those killed and said that compensation to the injured and those whose property had been damaged will be announced within the fortnight, after a preliminary assessment of claims.Mr Singh also announced the posting of an additional superindent of police at Belgaum and deployment of additional personnel at 137 locations identified as sensitive. However, Mr Singh brushed aside demands from local legislators and corporators who wanted a “judicial inquiry into what the)' claimed was organised anti-social activity funded from outside the city.(Continued on Pnge 26)Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.(Continued from Page I)!Angry and agitated legislators and corporators lashed out at the city police for their ineffectiveness in curbing the violence and taking preventive action. It may be recalled that trouble broke out at Belgaum when festivals of two communities almost co incided on April 5 and 6. The stabbing of a youth while returning from the cinema, let loose an orgy of violence which resulted in innumerable persons being stabbed, several shops being set afire and city life being completely disrupted.Though no fresh violence was reported today, the city remains tense and shaken by the bomb blast last night. A peace committee of city-based legislators and corporators met the minister this afternoon to make agitated protests against what they alleged was ineffectual action by the police. They pointed out that passengers coming into the city over the last four days had been stranded for hours at the bus and railway stations as autorickshaws, the only commercial means of transport, refused to ply.Milk supply and essential commodity supply was completely disrupted for the fifth day and schools and colleges have had thin attendence with many being closed. The worst affected were students trying to make their way to the SSLC examinations which are currently on.One MLA reported to the minister that a couple of students were thrown into the lock-up and some had their guardians beaten. The police, it is understood, have made attempts to ensure thatviolencestudents get to the exam halls. However, there have, been stray incidents of misbehaviour by police personnel leading to students losing an entire year of students.The legislators pointed out that this is the second incidence of communal violence in the last eight months. Curiously, Belgaum, which has been the centre of the boundary struggle between Karnataka and Maharashtra, has never previously witnessed communal tension except for some incidents in 1984. The increased intolerance between the two communities seems to have perplexed local leaders who believe that the violence has been funded and initiated by anti social elements from outside the state.This view seems to find favour with the local authorities, including the police and the home minister, While MLAs here lashed out at police officers and demanded that some of the top officials be sacked or transferred, the minister only assured them of prompt and efficient action against miscreants.He said, the inspector general of police, Mr M.H. Raghunandan, would remain in the city over the next couple of days to supervise police action. He had no answer to one MLA’s observation that despite dusk-to-dawn curfew, a mob of several hundreds had been allowed to gather at a couple of places last night. Worse, they alleged that the police in several cases had harassed innocent people and entered homes for searches quite unnecessarily,Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿FIVE KILLED IN MONGHYRThe Times of India (J86J-current); Oct 9, 1957; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 3FIVE KILLED IN MONGHYRRival GroupsClash“♦♦♦--------BEGUSARAI (Bihar), October 7: Five persons were killed in an armed clash between two rival groups of villagers over the demarcation of a disputed piece of land in the village of Bijulia, of Monghyr District, yesterday.A report received by the Be-gusarai police said that the majority group of over 100 armed men, mounted on elephants and stallions, forcibly carried away two of the bodies to the burning ghat and set fire to them. The ashes were thrown in the Ganga.Police officials have gone to the place to restore	order.—P.T.I.Donation For Temple‘‘The Times of India” News Service CHIDAMBARAM, October 8: The Rani of Sapra’ has donated Rs. 40,000 to the Srimushnam Bhuvarahaswami temple, one of the seven original Vaishnava temples in the south.The money is to be spent in renovating the sanctum and for making a gold-plated garuda. The Rani of Sapra had recently donated a gold anklet valued at Rs. 3,000 to the temple.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Poonch stir to he called offThe Times of India (J86J-current); Dec 13, 1978; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9Poonch stir to be called offJAMMU, December 12 (UNI): The two-month-old agitation in Poonch will be withdrawn tomorrow , as the chief minister, Mr. Sheikh Abdullah, has accepted all the demands. Mr.G. M. Mir Poonchi, leader of the three-member delegation from Poonch, which met the chief minister today, told newsmen.He said the chief minister has accepted all_ our demands and there is no necessity of continuing the agitation. We are leaving for Poonch andthe announcement regarding the withdrawal of the agitation will be made tomorrow afternoon at a public meeting there.”Mr. Mir Poonchi, who is also the vice-president of the Jammu and Kashmir pradesh Congress (I), said that all the qualified candidates who were earlier rejected by the Poonch recruitment board need not appear for any interviews' and they would be selected for the 90 posts already announced,Assam bandh:500 arrestedGAUHATI, December 12 (UNI):About 500 people were arrested throughout Assam today in connection with the state-wide bandh called by students, according to official reports here.The arrests were made for violation of prohibitory orders in force under section 144 Cr. P.C. Hie state government has instructed the district authorities to release all those arrested against whom there were no specific charges.Another stabbing in AligarhBy Onr CorrespondentALIGARH, December 12: One person was stabbed at Jaiganj in the heart of the trouble-torn city yesterday evening. The victim has been admitted to hospital and is still not out of danger.The district magistrate, Mr, V. K.Dee wan, said the incident had nothing to do with recent disturbances as it involved persons belonging to the same community. The outrage was traceable to “old enmity.’* The assailants had been wanting the victim to vacate a shop.Meanwhile, the senior superintendent of police, Mr. Jagmohan Saxena, said 16 more persons had been arrested, raising the total of anests to 116 since Friday's stabbing incident in the Chiragh Chian locality, in which one person died instantly and another sustained multiple dagger wounds.The police claim they recovered three country-made pistols and six cartridges from three persons yesterday. The situation is stated to be ‘‘tense” but .well under control.Night curfew, already over two months old, is still in force. Heavy patrolling by BSF and CRP japans is going on round the clock as a precautionary measure.UP power workers get ultimatumLUCKNOW, December 12 (PTI):The power workers strike in UttarPradesh today took a serious turn with the state electricity board issuing orders of termination of services of all those employees who fail to report on duty immediately.The leaders of the striking workers reacted sharply to the step and reiterated their decision to continue the strike till their demands, including wage increase, were conceded.UNI adds; Meanwhile, the Uttar Pradesh hvdro-electric employees union today withdrew its strike notice and directed its members to resume their duties from tomorrow as the state electricity board authorities had agreed to consider their demands sympathetically.The union claims a membershipabout 25,000. The hydro-electric employees union is the first labour organisation to withdraw the strike notice and direct its members to resume their duties.The power minister, Mr. R. K.Shahi, said, power supply to the Mussoorie television centre was disrupted due to sabotage and it was now being run by diesel generators.In Lucknow, attempts were made to disrupt supply on the 132 kv line rear Sarojini Nagar and also deprive the capital’s water works of electricity.	•Mr. Shahi claimed that 1,600 out of the 6,000 junior engineers, who had withdrawn their strike on Saturday evening, had already reported for duty till this afternoon.He also claimed that the operating Btaff . attendance at Meerut, Chibro and Kesa (Kanpur) power houses has improved and in Agra 80 per cent of the staff had resumed duty,>.	——----------— Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿119 INJURED IN RIOTS: PAK FLAG HOISTED IN <SPAN CLASS=HIT>NIZAMABAD</:The Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Aug 17, 1954; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Pak Flag Hoisted In NizamabadReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿One killed in Meerut firingThe Times of India (1861-current); Jul 2, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1MEERUT, July 1 (PTI): One person was killed and three security forces personnel were injured when the police opened fire to quell a mob in the Valley Bazar area here today.The district magistrate, Mr R. S. Kaushik, told newsmen this evening that the police foiled some attempts of arson and looting.	,The mob indulged in stone-throwing and hurled a bomb ip which a PAC deputy superintendent of police and three constables including two PAC jawans, were injured.	. ’,- ’The police recovered an unidentified body bearing multiple stab wounds in the Iswafpiiri Mbhalla this afternoon.The authorities clamped curfew all over the trouble-tom city from 7 p.m. this evening to 4 a.m. tomorrow.Curfew was, however, relaxed in the Sadar Bazar areas for two hours from S p.m. to 7 p.m.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Youths lynched in U.P.The Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jun 26, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 7Ytftiths lynched; GO.lie fllmes of India News ServiceLUCKNOW, June 25: Two Nluflim youths one of them all^dly having illicit relations Wilfe? Hindu girl, were killed by a al Shikarpur town in Biilandshahr district on Sunriav• t'1 1	'in' this re-enactment of Mffltana, 25-ycar-old lllayas, wq^jjvas reportedly having an aiTftjfewith Bhagwati Devi, was stabbed repeatedly and then his limpeform set on fire.Tfije local youth, who meted ouj,j(jis barbaric form of justice thetiv, hounded his friend, also named lllayas. With a rope tied artfind his neck, he was dragged ng distance, till the noose cd and life ebbed out ofhinvij1 The charred body of lllayas watfhanded over to his parents nc$ day by the police. But the authorities, caught in the flurry of formation of the new government have treated the case casually as one of routine crime. * The DGP’s office here broke jls^/igiriguing silence over the inejapnt yesterday with a misleading report that the two youths were lynched when they attempted to rape a girl.Ajbelalcd message from the district headquarters providing details and indicating the communal overtones of the incident was'suppressed by senior police officers.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿5 more killed in Hyderabad; 4 MLAs heldThe Times of India (1861-current); Jul 30, 1984; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 15	more killed in Hyderabad; 4 MLAs .heldHYDERABAD, July 29 JJNI).TT10UR city MLAs—three of the S. Majlis Ittehadul Muslimeen and one of the BJ.P—were today detained under'the National Security Act as renewed communalclashes .claimed at least five lives during the two-hour curfew relaxation this mnrninp.The MLAs detained are:	Mr.Baqar A.oha, Mr. Amanullah Khan, Mr. Khaja Abu Syed — all Majlis —and Mr. A. Narendra of the BJP. One Mr. C. Hanumantha Rao was also detained under the NSA.The police opened five rounds' of fire in Sultanshahi area on an unruly crowd indulging in stabbings in bylanes when curfew was relaxed.With a woman succumbing to injuries she has sustained, on Monday last,’ the toll rose to ten since trouble broke out in the city on July 22.	'CURFEW REIMPOSED'■ > One -company of1 Central': Reserve Police Force has. been deployed in the disturbed areas to assist the state police, while two more companies would reach the city tomor-• row.	.Curfew was reimposed till 6 a.m. on Tuesday in 23 police station limits. ■	#The city police commissioner Mr. K. Vijayarama Rao, told newsmen this evening that besides... five NSA detentions, 100 people were arrested in the course of house-to-house searches in the old city in which knives and other weapons were recovered. Fivehundred people have been arrested so far in connection with the clashes.Two stabbing incidents, _ one in Mogulpura police station limits, and the other in Jambagh, which were outside the curfew zone, were reported-About 30 people are being< treated for injuries in the Osmania General Hospital here.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿9 DIE, 60 HURT IN CITY FIRINGA Staff ReporterThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 21, 1970; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 19 DIE, 60 HURT IN CITY FIRINGBy A Staff ReporterVTINE men died and more than^ ' 60 were injured when. the ,	.police opened fire in a number	ere Set on ®re‘ the P°hcenight as disturbances suddenly co“£,stated.The situation was brought under ’ '	‘ ‘ p.m.A notorious gang leader, who had The trouble started at a matka den just returned after a spell of extern-near Two Tanks, off the J. J. Hos- merit, was stated to be one of the ~	killed.ot places in Bombay on Sunday broke out over a wide areaThe localities involved were Mandvi, Bhendi Bazar, Nagpada, Madanpura, Kamathjpura, Pydhoni, Null Bazarand Kumbhanvada.The police, who had kept a watef during t the Ganpati celebrations ovei the places where trouble could start had been withdrawn only on Saturday Some of the buses passing througl the disturbed areas were divertec through safer routes.	■, The commissioner of police ha: issued prohibitory orders banning th< assembly of five or more persons anc processions from 5 a.m. on Monday for seven days in Agripada, Nag. pada; Byculla, Dongri, Pydhoni anc V.P. Road.pital, and rumours spread fast creating tension in a number of places.Police sources stated that the men connected with the matka den clashed with a group of bootleggers about 9 p.m. and that was how the disturbance started.Two trolley buses were damaged on Moulana Shoukat Ali Road and a hotel in Kamatipura and a laundry clse-Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿5 killed,100 hurt in AurangabadThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); May 18, 1988; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 15 killed,100 hurtinAurangabadAURANGABAD, May 17.FIVE people were killed and 100 injured in group clashes on the eve of Id here today. Curfew was clamped from 1 p.m., following incidents of arson, stabbing and stone-throwing.Violence erupted in the Gulmandi Chowk, near Nehru Bhavan, in the town in the afternoon. Several shops and vehicles were damaged in the arson.Police patrolling in the city has been intensified to maintain law and order.PTI adds: While it is still not known what sparked violence, earlier in the day, the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court adjourned to May 24, hearing on a writ petition filed by a Shiv Sena corporator.The petition had challenged the legality of the May 6 meeting of the Aurangabad municipal corporation which elected the Congress nominee, Dr Shantaram Kale, as the city's first mayor after a walkout by the Sena members.Sources said that the situation was now being brought under control.The Maharashtra government has issued a state-wide alert and issued instructions to police force on the law and order situation on the eve of Id festival tomorrow in view of the tension prevailing in some parts of the state.When contacted by reporters the chief minister, Mr Chavan, said today’s incidents at Aurangabad were between two groups.“I was anticipating it and had given very clear instructions asking every body to be alert all over the state”, he said.	.Our staff reporter in Bombay adds: Speaking to reporters, here, he said the police were maintaining a close watch over anti-social elements in sensitive places.Mr Chavan said that the violence in Pune recently was the outcome of “some kind of conspiracy.” He refused to elaborate on the details of the controversy, unless substantial proof was gathered. But the modus operandi of the trouble-makers clearly pointedto a conspiracy, he averred.The chief minister said that the investigation into the charges against the Shiv Sena chief, Mr Bal Thackeray, were still in progress.	,While conceding that the investigation was “taking a long time”, he said that the police were being allowed to proceed according to the due process of law. No time limit had been fixed for completing the investigation, he said.A case had been registered against Mr Thackeray after he had announced a call for an economic boycott of Sikh businessmen, allegedly aiding terrorists.	;Mr Chavan today said that outcome of an election was always a result of collective efforts and no single person could be blamed for the defeat of a party.	'Reacting sharply to the allegation made by the former chief minister, Mr Vasantrao Patil, that Mr Chavan Was responsible for the defeat of the Congress Party in Aurangabad municipal election, he observed, “Mr Patil can only criticise me.” .“1 am open for discussion. I do not know why Mr Patil airs his grievances publically,” he said.	rReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿12 KILLED AND 38 INJURED IN JABALPUR RIOTS: 36- HOUR CURFEW: SITUATION TENSEThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Feb 9, 1961; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of Indiapg. 1JABALPUR, February 8.npWELVE people were killed and 38 injured in savage rioting  in Jabalpur last night and today, and the police opened fire to quell the riots and in self-defence.A fresh wave of violence swept the city last night after a day of peace and sanity when rioters, armed with fire-arms, acid bulbs and other weapons, attacked members of the rival community and their houses at four places simultaneously in the Hanumantal police station area.The authorities clamped down 36-hour curfew on the city beginning from 6 p.m. today. A total of 308 people have been rounded ud since last nieht.The Army, which was withdrawn on Sunday w'hen peace returned to the city, was again called out last night to assist the police in restoring peace.Of the 12 persons who died, two were killed this afternoon when a crowd attacked the houses of some people of another community and burned them. Two persons died and a third was injured. A dagger was recovered from the injured person in hospital.The authorities described the disturbances that broke out last night as “preplanned and pre-arranged.” The situation today was grave, And tension was mounting.ORGY OF VIOLENCECrowds of one community collected at four places—Ghoda Nakka, Ma-chhli Market, Motinalla and Sujimo-halla—at about 9-15 p.m. and indulged in an orgy of violence. They spread out in groups in bylanes and, shouting slogans, attacked the houses of people belonging to the rival community. Shooting, looting, criminal assaults and arson followed.This attracted small assemblies of the rival community. They replied by throwing brickbats.The news of this outbreak reached the police station and police parties were immediately despatched to the trouble spots.Tho police first ordered the crowds to disperse. The order was ignored and rioting continued. They then used tear-gas shells and opened fire in selfdefence at two places. The crowds then dispersed.At one place, the mob caught a police sub-inspector who was forcibly put in a jeep in which they carried fire-arms. However, the police officer was rescued by a constable.KILLED IN FIRINGAs a result of the firing some persons were killed and some others injured.Shots were fired from a religious place where some miscreants had gathered. Fifteen people were arrested.After the dispersal of the mobs, the police parties attended to the injured and the bodies of those killed were removed,It was reported that Leu persons were killed as a result of the use of of fire-arms by the crowds and the police firing. Two bodies were recovered from the Hanumantal tank this morning.Among the injured are a police subinspector and a member of the Municipal Corporation.Rioting occurred in other parts of the town also. Naya Mohalla, Gha-mapur, Galgala and Khatik Mohalia were among the affected areas.The Fire Brigade of the Jabalpur Municipal Corporation was busy lastnight when several houses were set ort fireArmy men were today patrolling the streets along with members of the armed police.The. Inspector-General of Police, Mr. K, F. Rustumji, and the Deputy Inspector-General of Police, at the Police Headquarters, Mr. R. N. Nagu. air-dashed to Jabalpur this afternoon. The plane circled over the riot-torn city to enable the police chief and his deputy to get an idea of the extent of the disturbances before landing.The city presented a deserted appearance in the afternoon. Markets, shops, business houses and educational institutions remained closed,The_ District Magistrate of Jabalpur, in a press note issued on the situation today, said that several incidents of arson were reported from certain trouble spots in the city. “The situation remains tense and there is panic among the people,” it said.It said that a number of • searches were made and quite a large number of lethal weapons were recovered.Three minor incidents were reported from Patan Tehsil, 19 miles from here. Several miscreants were arrested.A prohibitory order under Section 144, Cr. P.C. was promulgated there.See Page 9Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿9 killed in GujaratThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jun 8, 1985; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg. 1AHMEDABAp; June 7.AT least eight people were killri e4 and several others injured' as the army1 opened fire on ram-i paging mobs which .set several shops and houses on fire during the “Gujarat bandh” today.(According to PT^ a total of nine, people were killed; ,&ix of- them in: firing and three insfabblngraci-dents).	VThe fdur^mpdttold'iaht^i^rvadoni. agitation in; the state- in: .which lias; so far claimed oyer 130 lives and property worth several ; crores of rupees, reached a crescendo today,! when the bandh called by the all-' Gujarat parents federation, the indefinite strike by state government employees and the trade bandh coincided;As large, scale'violence; broke out this afternoon in the disturbed walled; city areas, the authorities, reimposed indefinite curfew in the Dariapur and Kalupur police station areas. The army fired 13 rounds as groups ofclash ; on Relief Road apd loriV. of them later . succumbed tO 'iiis injuries.; ’;The trpuble starte^' wheh .some 2Q0;paralysed ; in5 : Ahniedabad1 on th« thirdswomen> tried to stop; trafficvOtt Relief*Road. They stopped, scbbtefjsts' and* motorists,, deflated their tyre’s: anid up-: braided them for not observing the^ bandh. According to thevafmy, \this sparked, the. violence in, the, already-surcharged; atmosphere 'in the ,walled’ dity areas, and soon 'after group-iclashes ; began in '.various! parts;. : PTl ;& UNI add:	; yvV :: While The bandh had virtually no5 impact in, entire' Saurashtra .region, if was complete in’ northern districts headquarter fown/. of Mehsana. But it was incident-free. .	/ iiday. of'their fivfe-day1 hartal,: *A^ ieporta frohi1; Rajkot r said . tnal Surehdrahagar, Bhuf and Jamhagai city Also ^observed, bandh today as altriost all shops and 'business^ establishments remained closed.Meanwhile, a press release issued by the Chamber of Commerce, rde* cided to close down their, busipess activities tomorrow in Rajkot city in support of the five-day strike by'th« Mahajans of Ahmedabad. . ; ,The-Gujarat thigh, cohrt has passed an interim' order . asking; the state government nat to reduce reservation quota of 28 per cent announced re-However, incidents of stoning were; 'received frcta Kalol and Unjha towns of the same district.people , belonging to‘ different communities attacked each other'with acid■ In southern Surat, the-police lobbed; a total of 38 teargas shells to scatter mobs in the permanent trouble' spots of Mahidharpura, Vania Sheri, Patidar Bhuvan, Vishalad Wadi, Go-lawala. Chakla, Jadkhadiand fiha-waniwad. - - - - - •	.	. •	:bulbs, burning rags and other lethal weapons at Vadigam, hear Kalupur^ and Dabgarwad in Dariapur.MILLS CLOSEDARSON SPREEThe trouble soon spread to Kalupur.; As the situation threatened to assume alarming proportions, arroymeri went on rooftops, and opened fire on the rioting mobs, killing at least seven people and injuring eight._ Adding to this, arsonists ■ were active in the city from moming setting ablaze houses and shops in Dariapur, Kalupur, Naranpura and Navrangpura. The arson continued, unabatfed' till this evening, by when at least ten houses and 15 shops were set on fire;The arsonists 'did not ' spare posh localities of the city. They set ablaze a manager’s cabin in a nationalised bank after breaking its window panes. A jeep was 'also set on fire near the Navrangpura high school.Two people were stabbed' in group;Two policemen injured in Hari-piira area were removed ip hospital.Furniture of a primary school was pulled lout on 'to the main road and was; set on fireL Three persons have been arrested in this connection.‘Fifty per cent of the textile mills in- the City,- remained closed due to the bandh, A spokesman of the Ahmedabad Textile Labour Association said the workers were also frustrated due to the new textile policy..Meanwhile,; around 35 per cent of the staff, reported, for duty in.various government offices throughout the state a? the indefinite strike by gov-: ernment 'employees; began today. Glass IV and' those belonging to schedule caste and schedule tribes did riot respond to the strike call.In-several towns, banks were , also closed. Trade and business regainedReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew in MP town after clashOur CorrespondentThe Times of India (1861-current); Jun 19, 1980; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 11Curfew in MP towiaffpr cl it«ItBy Our CorrespondentINDORE; June. .18: Indefinite curfew was clamped down on a town 35 km. from Dewas. this afternoon following a. clash between two communities. ,Accord'ng to information, trouble erupted in the town after a clasl over the sale of mangoes.	'The police made a lathi-charge anc burst tear-gas shells. Fifteen person: were arrested.	‘Over 20 persons, including nim policemen, were injured.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Adjournment Motions In Assembly Rejected: SITUATION UNDER CONTROL, SAYS MINISTERThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Feb 11, 1961; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 1Adjournment Motions In Assembly RejectedSITUATION UNDER CONTROL, SAYS MINISTER“The Times of India” News ServiceBHOPAL, February 1U.rpHE situation in all the places which had reported disturbances yesterday was now under control, said the Deputy Home Minister, Mr. Narsinghrao Dixit, in the Madhya Pradesh Legislative Assembly here today.i	He made a statement in the House ■ as the Chief Minister, Dr. K. N. Katju, had authorised him to do so.' Mr. Dixit said that District Magistrates all oyer the State had been | asked to employ all legal measures ! to preserve the peace.The Deputy Home Minister stated [ that the incidents reported yesterday ! from Saugor, Datnoh, Katni, Nar-! singhpur, Kareli and Gadarwara were | only the repercussions of the disturbances in Jabalpur.After the statement of the Deputy Home Minister, the Speaker rejected three adjournment motions sought to be moved bv Onoosition members todiscuss the happenings in the troubled towns of the State.P.T.I. adds:	Tracing the eventsculminating in the disturbances in Jabalpur, Mr. Dixit said that after the riots of February 4, the situation improved on February 5 and 6 and there was no incident throughout the day on February 7.On the night of February 7, he said, there was sudden recrudescence of trouble in which rioters .armed with weapons attacked the police. The police was compelled to resort to firing four times in which six persons were killed. A rifle, two 12-bore guns, a number of empty and live cartridges and other deadly weapons were seized	from	the	possession	ofthe rioters.	.	_Mr. Dixit	said	that	a magesterialinquiry into	the police	firing of	Fe-bruary 7 had been ordered.Mr. Dixit	gave	the	following	de-Continued on page 7 Column 1Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.RIOT SITUATION IN M.P.Minister’s ReviewContinued from Page 1 Column 7tails of disturbances in other towns:Danioh: Cases of arson and assault were reported from the town. One person injured in the disturbances was admitted in the hospital and his condition was reported to be serious.Katni:	A procession was takenout in the town yesterday and a demand was made for conducting a search of the house of a local biri merchant on suspicion of his possessing some arms. A search was conducted but nothing was found in the house. The agitated crowd then looted three shops. Section 144 Cr. P. C. was promulgated and the situation was now under control.Saugor:	The	military	was calledout in the town to assist the police following incidents of loot, arson and assault. Tear-gas shells were used to disperse the crowd. Two persons were killed in the disturbances. Twelve-hour curfew was clamped on the town. The situation is now under control.Narsinghpur:	Three persons wereassaulted of whom two died.Kareli:	A procession of studentsindulged in stone-throwing and a sub-inspector of police was attacked. The police fired three rounds in the air to disperse the crowd and the situation there was now satisfactory.Gadarwara:	Two minor cases offire were reported on February 8; the loss was insignificant.Earlier, Mr. M. D. Ghule (Congress) wanted to know whether some people from Saugor waited on the Chief Minister prior to the outbreak of disturbances and in spite of their request no precautionary measures were taken.The Chief Minister said that he did meet some people from Saugor and whatever was necessary was done.Mr. Dixit, said that since the outbreak of disturbances in Jabalpur, contacts had been established with the district authorities near about Jabalpur. Necessary instructions were given to them to face any eventuality and these instructions were repeated by the Chief Minister yestrday from Jabalpur.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew in BaroedaOut Staff CofresnondentThe Times of India (1861-current); Dec 19, 1982; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1By Ouf Staff CorresnondentBA RO DA,-' December 18NO incident was - reported from ( any part of the city on the fifth day after violence-, started here as a protest against the trails-fer of‘ the police commissioner, Mr. Jasbal Sinvh.When curfew < was relaxed today, long ciueues formed before flout mills and' grain shops in Raopura, Mandvi and Wadi areas, as shopkeepers did not open shops, fearing an - outburst of'violence. .	. . ) :	' ., So far, 515' people /h|^/toen: round-' ed upfor violating;the'eurfew:. Eighty-one people; have been held' under ‘sub* siantive: charges, y,.	:	' y;/.	•Police soutces said that ten giins and abdut 1,000- liyev cartridges reportedly looted ■ frdni an/arras shop, in . Mandvihad, been recovered. In all; ,three rifles, 1 16 12-bpre .grins,,, seven muzzle-loading :loo(ed \frbm; this shop,	 ’ - ■<Dilip Rarrianbbai, at' whose instance, the. recoveryof:iarhis ;y/as maderhas been^rehiaftded- tojUdiciarcUstbdy for ‘ .14 days by - the first class judicial ma- ! gislrate before whom he was produ- 1 ced yesterday. Dilip was apprehended 1 when police; dogs led the investigators to his house. ■	y•; The; situation in the. nearby. taluka c towriof- Padra, where yesterday • after- ( npou mobs had to 'be fired Alt .-as they, attempted to loot shops in Jhanda * Btuar antj[ Gandhi -Chowk, '• was re- 1 ported to- be1 ImderA.control. ’ today.'-s Twelve people have been held on'the i charge.. of rioting, theBaroda. rural police said. . ,	.	. '	•  t. The general secretary of the .poly- ( 'technic students’ aSsociatidn, Baroda, r Mr.: PrUvin Jaiswalv'-in a’statement, p threatened agitation -if/the .transfer of ... Mr. Jaspal' Singh’ .was; hot rescined. n ; Meanwhile, the. registrar of MiS. n University, in - a prdss; note- announced o .that, the Reaching- work in ' all the fa- r Old ties and colleges of v.the university would remain •suspended till •; D,eCem- r ber 31, and the period from Decern- v ber-16-.to -December ;'31- would- be shmmtftfi at van'll intv fn4-	fooi/lim-c fReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Fifty killed in Meerut riotingThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); May 20, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1The Times of India News ServiceMEERUT, May 19.SOME 50 people are believed to have been killed and many others injured and over 200 shops and commercial establishments set ablaze in two days of violence in one of the worst communal riots witnessed here.The army was alerted today and several affected areas were put under indefinite curfew. The Central Reserve- Police Force, the Provincial Armed Constabulary and the U.P. police were patrolling . the sensitive areas.A senior army official told this paper that they were assisting the local administration in handling the situation and that “the army will take full control if the situation gets out of hand.”The enormity of the situation could be gauged from the fact that Mrs Mohsina Kidwai, Union minister for urban development and the local MP, Mr Vir Bahadur Singh, chief minister, Mr P. Chidambaram, Union minister of state for home, and Mr Gopinath Dixit, state minister of home, all rushed to the city when the situation worsened in the second round of communal frenzy. Over ten people had died when trouble had erupted on the day of Shab-e-Barat here last month.Mr Chidambaram and Mrs Kidwai were dumb-founded when newsmen confronted them in the evening at the Circuit House. Despite having been briefed by the local senior police officials, Mr Chidambaram refused to comment on the situation. But he agreed to brief the press later. However, when around 8.30 again he was asked to describe the situation, he said he would rather not make any assessment.	'Though the district authorities put the death roll at only 13, inquiries withthe hospitals and mortuaries indicated that some SO people must have died in the communal strife. A senior police official revealed that the adminis-tration was expecting even greater trouble late tonight.PTI & UNI add:In all the curfew-bound areas of the sensitive old city, the police had to open fire a number of times to quell mobs which went on the rampage burning shops and hurling brickbats. Police posts were also attacked in several places and firearms snatched.At a number of places, policemen were fired upon from inside places of worship and in the Islamabad area of the town, people dug up trenches and took position to open fire on the police from all directions, the deputy inspector-general of police, Meerut, Mr Nathu Lai, said.He said only one death was reported yesterday and the rest of the killings took place today. The violence was continuing all late in the evening.Today’s violence comes barely a month after the group clashes in the city that left seven people dead.Mr Nathu Lai said the situation was much more serious this time.According to official sources there was tension in some parts of Meerut at the weekend following the killings of a bank employee over a landlord-tenant dispute. However, the police apprehended two persons whom they described as the prime suspects and the situation was brought under control.Police sources said a shop was gutted yesterday, probably due to an accidental short-circuit. But a rumour spread that it was a case of arson. Agitated by the rumours mobs went on the rampage stabbing one person and indulging in arson and looting.The home secretary said two petrol pumps and about 200 houses and shops were set on fire by miscreants.He said 200 persons had been arrested.The trouble, according to the home secretary, was sparked off in theChipiwada locality under the Kotwali police station last night when a coun-trymade bomb was burst and a wooden kiosk set ablaze near a religious place.Agitated mobs, set on fire three houses and hurled brickbats, injuring a scooterist.CUJRFEW IN OLD DELHI (PTI) Indefinite curfew was clamped on the entire walled city area this evening following clashes between groups ol youth who fought pitched battles in the narrow bylanes with stones and aerated water bottles.The police fired at least six rounds ir the air and lathi-charged the mobs foi over three hours before the situation could be brought under control.According to the deputy commissioner of police (north), Mrs Kiran Bedi, there were no casualties. However, unofficial reports said that several persons were injured in brickbatthrowing.Srinagar: The police today opened six rounds of fire in ithe air and burst tear-gas shells to disperse violent groups of youth belonging to the Jam-mat-i-Islami protesting against an alleged sacriligious book at Tral, 29 km from here.The youths clashed with the police at a number of places in the township and stoned buildings and passing vehicles, according to reports received here.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿12 hurt in clash at MoradabadOur CorrespondentThe Times of India (1861-current); Jul 26, 1980; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 912 hurt in clash at MoradabadBy Our Correspondent^lORADABAb^jiV 25: At least 12 people were injured, one seriously, in a dash between Harijans and members of' a minority community in' the ” Katra Shaheed area here; last night.The trouble arose when some persons offering^ “namaz” in a mosque asked a Harijan marriage procession to stop beating drums. The Harijans refused to do soi This led to an exchange of; brickbats between the two 6ides. v	. •...,••■.■• •. : ■A. 5,000-st:rong;.crowd, allegedly gathered: in a predominantly Harijan area and attacked passers-by. - Some houses were also reported to have been raided.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Mob on rampageThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jul 7, 1985; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Mob onth« Times of India News ServiceAHMEDABAD, July 6.EVEN as Mr. Amarsinh Chau-dhary was being sworn-in as the new chief minister, a 200-strong mob went on the rampage in the state capital, Gandhinagar, today attacking the sachivalaya canteen and setting fire to a number of two-wheeleis.	*Army pickets posted at Raj Bhavan, ministers' bungalows and other sensitive spots prevented the mob violence from spreading further.Chhota Udepur town, in Baroda district, was placed under indefinite curfew following group dashes, and in Surat, the police fired on rampaging mobs. A newspaper vendor was stabbed in the curfew-bound Jahanghrpura area.The curfew was not relaxed in Baroda today for fear of continuatioi of last night’s violence when the police burst teargas shells to disperse a mob engaged in stoning a Congress .legislator's house....In Surat, what started as a demonstration to celebrate Mr. SolankftResignation as chief minister, degenerated into ugly scenes when the residents of the Lai Darwaja area attacked a patrolling police party with stones and acid bulbs. The police fired ope round and the attackers fled.The attack on the Sachivalaya canteen was said to be in retaliation for last night’s incidents when five hejuses were set ablaze in Gandhinagar. !Meanwhile, i the Akhll Gujarat Navrgchana Samitl and the Akhil Gujarat 'YaH Mahamandat, the two organisations leading the anti-reservation agitation, today pledged to continue their stir till the reservation system was abolished.The two bodies also called for a boycott of schools reopeoing on Monday till their goal was achieved. The Navrachand Sarhiti safd it1 would observe Monday as a ‘‘public holiday”to celebrate the' “ouster” of Mr.Solanki. 'The Mahamandal president, Mr. Shankarbhai Patel, said the agitation had nothing to do with the change in government and would continue as it was aimed at abolishing the reservation system.The Navrochana Jegritikaran Pagla Samiti, a students’ body, said the Congress had enacted a dramq bv elevating Mr. Amarsinh Chaudhary as chief minister when, in fact, Mr. Solanki’s rule would continue. This would not be tolerated, it warned.The state lihit of the All-India Students’ Federation has convened a meeting of students and parents tomorrow to see to it that schools and colleges functioned normally. .Meanwhile, the third round of talks between the state government and its employees, who are on an idefinite strike demanding total abolition of the caste-based roster system of promotion, ended abruptly today following the change in the state leadership.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Three die in Bihar firingThe Times of India (J86J-current); Oct 25, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1Three die in Bihar firingPATNA, Oct 24 (PTI): At least three persons were killed and 38 others injured in mob violence and police firing as fast escalating communal clashes engulfed Bhagalpur town even as curfew was imposed today.The toll in Such disturbances and police firing in different parts of the state rose to 20 over the last 72 hours, officials said here tonightAmong the injured at Bhagalpur were 18 policemen.Tension built up in the town as a determined mob, 3,000 strong, attempted to block a religious procession.Meanwhile, North Bihar has been put ■ under red alert , as tension mounted in several districts.Sources said that though the situation in the riot-hit villages of Sitamarhi and Darbhanga districts continued to be under control, tension prevailed in the vulnerable areas.TOINSadds: The Bihar chief minister, Mr S, N. Sinha, accompanied by the Union planning minister, Mr S. B. Chavan, the Union minister of state for home, Mr S. M. Deb, and Mr A. R. Mallu, A1CC general secretaiy, visited the riot-tom villages in Sitamarhi district this afternoon.Rioting in Sitamarhi on Sunday night was sparked off by a quarrel stemming from previous enmity.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Rourkela Situation Is Better: Trouble ElsewhereThe Times of India (1861-current); Mar 23, 1964; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1BHUBANESWAR, March 22. a and some others had been kept asI stand-by to meet emergency requirements.—P.T.LWHILE the situation in Rour-kela ^ recorded “further improvement'’ today, sporadic incidents of arson and looting took place in Sundargarh, Rajgangpur, Bisra. Birmitrapur and Launga in Sundargarh District of Orissa State, according to official reports.The official death-roll in.Rourkela and suburbs rose to 62 with reports of nine more deaths received today.The military, which has been in full control in Rourkela since yesterday, took control today of the Bisra area adjoining the steel town,TWO ROUNDS FIREDThe reports said there were no incidents in Rourkela today. But the military opened fire in the old town twice at two places, one round on each occasion, to scare away tiouble-makers.No death was reported in the firing.	.“Further relaxation” of tension in Brajrajnagar, Jharsuguda and Sambal-pur was officially reported.The report of one death due to knife injuries on Friday was received from the Jharsuguda police station area outside the town. -This was the lirst death reported from Sambalpur District in the current clashes.A press note issued by the Home Department of the Orissa Government tonight said that the 24-hour curfew, damped on Rourkela town yesterday, was further extended.Patrolling by the army and the police personnel who were, assisting it continued.The press note said that curfew was relaxed at Jharsuguda for lour hours between six and ten this morning.The State Government has however. decided not to relax the curfew in the town tomorrow in view of a case of arson during the relaxation of curfew.HOOLIGANS ARRESTEDThe press note said large-scale arrest of hooligans had been effected in the different affected areas, including 250 in Rourkela town.According to latest official reports, the police tired a total of 21 rounds in Rourkela on Friday night at three places. No death \\as repotted.’’Ihe prC'v note said that ‘'exemplary courage and a sen-e of sacrifice was shown hv the students ol Rourkela Fncineeting t.olleee during the dis-titibances. in gi'.ing .sheltei to . citizens evacuated lot safety horn the affected areas.••I he Suite (•'rovnnment, todav rush-. cd two pkm. loads of milk powdet to. Ronikela fot fh, ;i--e ol the evacuated eui/eii-.I .ilea official tepoti' siul die MtviKih o! the .military in Ro.nke’a v..»s iciniotccd today.	,Oiisvi militaty police petsonne! fan aimed'‘civil police force)', who had been sent to We-t Bengal during rioTs thete. had been ni-heJ back to 'Orissa ■o meet the situation, borne of them had been sent to the disturbed townsReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Four Dead In East Pak RiotsThe Times of India (J86J-current); Mar 5, 1961; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1DACCA, March 4.CV)UR persons died in disturb* ° * ances which broke out on ti March 2 in Saidpur in Rangpur District of East Pakistan, an offi-ciai hand-out released here today said.Enquiries show that a dusk-to- b dawn curfew is in force in Saidpur ? Town, about 250 miles north of * Dacca. The disturbances: there y&b jj the third of the kind in East Pakistan 1 in the past ten days.The hand-out said that the police * opened fire to quell the disturbance, v but details of casualties^ if «ny,in the. police firing were notv available, tThe hand-out also said that of the j people injured in the disturbances in 1 the Khulna and Daulatpur areas on ( February 26, “two persons are re- * ported to have died.” ■	^This brings the total of deaths so 1 far to seven in the Khulna and Dau* latpur riots of last Week.	jOfficial Communique jThe official hand-out given to press correspondents today on die ( two-day old disturbances in Saidpur ; said: “On March 2 miscreants at- ; tacked and injured fifteen persons at ; Saidpur in Rangpur District Two persons were killed and two others subsequently succumbed to their injuries. The police opened fire on the miscreants but details regarding thenumber of persons injured in thepolice firing are not available. Heavy reinforcements were rushed to Saidpur and curfew was imposed by the local authorities. About 200 persons have been arrested. Military courts have been convened to try cases (arising out of the disturbances) at Khulna and Daulatpur.”—P.T.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿1 killed, curfew imposed in BarodaThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jul 18, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 91 killed, curfewimnosed in BarodaBARODA, July 17 (PTl): Curfew was imposed tonight in some localities under the Wadi and city police station areas of the city following renewed mob violence Which led one dead and six injured.One person was stabbed to death and six injured, three of them in police firing, following outbreak of disturbances after reports that the deputy mayor, Mr Nalin Bhatt and six others, arrested under the Anti-Terrorist Act, would not be produced before the court during, the hearing of the case today.The police fired II rounds in Saneshwar Lane and some other localities to disperse ofick-battihg mobs. The situation in the city was stated to be tense.Meerirt: The situation in the not* tom city continued to remain normal for the second day On Friday with no untoward incidents being reported from any part of the city as curfew waS relaxed in two phases.Meanwhile, the additional district magistrate (city), Mr M. A. Farooqi, today issued orders banning the entry of eight prominent Muslim leaders into Meerut district till July 31 in view ol the prevailing tension.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Communal Violence In U.PThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 15, 1988; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 8Communal Violence In U.P.One week after the latest eruption of communal violence in U.P., there is still no satisfactory explanation as to why it occurred only in a few pockets in western U.P., considering that the explosion was caused by a state-wide bandh called by the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP). The bandh, by all accounts, was fairly effective across the state. Why then did violence only occur in Muzaffarnagar, Aligarh and Khatauli? Clearly a conclusive explanation would have to await more in-depth information about the background and activities of communal organisations in the area. Meanwhile, however, available reports suggest that failure at the local administrative level could have been responsible for matters getting out of hand, particularly in Muzaffarnagar where 19 people were killed. Last Saturday’s VHP bandh had been called in protest against the proposed October 14 march to Ayodhya by leaders of the Babri Masjid action committee. The bandh had all the ingredients of communal trouble and yet the district authorities in Muzaffhmagar failed to deploy adequate forces as a precautionary measure. Violence broke out early that day in KJiatauli following attempts to force shopkeepers to down their shutters. But the district authorities acted decisively only in the evening because they were apparently busy at the farewell celebrations of the outgoing district magistrate!A similar reason might account for another outbreak of violence three days later, which followed a clash between a procession demanding the release of those arrested for the October 8 violence and the participants in a peace march. The administration, it would seem, let itself be intimidated by the fact that prominent among the trouble-makers was a leading supporter of a senior U.P. minister. Peace only returned after the army was called in, total curfew reim-- posed and more than 250 trouble-mongers, including the ^controversial supporter of the minister, taken into custody. That having been said, it must also be reiterated that leaders ‘ who comprise the Babri Masjid action committee have been playing with fire in their attempt to pressurise the government to accede to their demand. Three points should be obvious to the meanest intelligence. First, that tension on this count must be defused before any solution can be found to the contentious issue of the shnne. Secondly, that the solution has to be a compromise one which does not satisfy either side but one with which both parties can live with, for instance a return to the status as it obtained before 1986.' Thirdly, that such a solution in order to be accepted and to be effective calls for genuine calm.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿1 dies in Calcutta group clashThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Nov 24, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 91 dies in Calcutta group dashThe Haas af India New* Sank*CALCUTTA, November 23: One person lit killed, another seriously iqjwvd and eight were discharged after fintaad Whereas l-dash between two groups of peopleis which a house was , set on firt^ihe Weft Bengal mimstar far. informattoo, Mr Buddhadev Bfaat-tschasya, m»d here today.The incident occurred at around 7JO i.m. after which the Easton Frontier Rifles stated a route march through the area and were detailed to patrol the scene.The police fired two rounds, one. from t revolver and the other from a rifle and also seven rounds of tetr-gts to bring the mob under control. The police recovered six bombs from the area.According to tbe chief secretary, Mr Rathin Stsgmft, a quarrel began over procurement of kerosene in the rooming. A man was caught when he tried to procure kerosene far the third time from the shop. He was allegedly manhandled after which he returned with a group of anti-socials belonging to one community.A dash occurred near tbe College Street market xn oentnl Calcutta and spread to the nearby residential buBd-inas and one house was set ou fire. Five pwicemrp and several fire service per-smnat were burned and two fire tracks were tlimatnf in the violence.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew in Aligarh, 1 killedThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 11, 1988; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1LUCKNOW, October 10 (UNI): Ini' definite curfew was imposed in fiveS‘ice station areas of Aligarh today owing fresh stabbing incidents resulting in the death of one person.The state home secretary, Mr Sant Kumar Tripathi, said curfew was im, posed in Aligarh at 1:15 p.m. today in the police station areas of Kotwali, Delhi Gate, Gandhi park and Punna Devi following five incidents of stabbing.New Delhi: (UNI): The Ramjanam ■ Mukti Sangharsh Samiti today threat' ened to undertake a march to the historic Jama Masiid here on October 14 if Muslim leaders did not call off their proposed march from Faizabad to Ayodhya.Mr B. L. Sharma, general secretary ' of the Samiti, said the Bajrang Dal > volunteers have decided to march to i the mosque and recite “Hanuman , Chalisa”.Meanwhile, the Centre is expected hold a second round of talks with the Samiti leaders,.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Five killed in new riots in MoradabadThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 11, 1980; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1LUCKNOW. September 10fUND.FIVE persons were killed and six injured in clashes between two groups of people in five localities of . Moradabad town in renewed riots this morning, according to the chief secretary, Mr. R. B. Saxena.	1Mr. Saxena told newsmenvthat the police had to fire in self-defence in two localities. Details were awaited.He said the district administration reimposed an indefinite curfew on Nai Basti, Rehti, Bara Dari, Deputy Ganj and Pir Khana, where incidents of brickbat-throwing, bottle-throwing and firing/ from rooftops took place between 10 a.tn, and 12.30 p.m. today.Mr. Saxena said all the incidents were confined to the Kotwali'police station area.	'> He said curfew might have to be imposed on the rest of the town as a precaution. We had not been able to reach Moradabad on the telephone since 3 p.m.,, he added.Mr. Saxena said, according to his information, there were clashes between two^ groups of people in the RelHi locality of' the town. .Housetop-assailants threw stones and bottles and resorted- to firing. As a result three persons were injured, Mr. Saxena said.	-After a week’s. respite^ several areas of Moradabad went under a 24-hour curfew again from 11 a.m. today as renewed violence broke out.As police reinforcements were rushed/to the disturbed areas,t curfew was reimposed on LalMasjm, Reti Mo-halla, Kuchcha Baiigh, Ghas Mandi, Baradari aiid Tehsil school areas.As news of fresh violence spread there was a stampede in the entire town as rickshaw-pullers, cyclists and motorists rushed to safer places.All government offices, courts, banks and other establishments were immediately* closed. .Latef reports( mentioned firing in the Katghar locality.The police 'said a dozen people were arrested and a revolver and a carbine seized from the miscreants.A large. number of aerated water bottles, heaps of stones and other missiles vtfere detected, on roof-tops and. other places in the Lai Masjid and Reti MohiiHa areas, the police said. ' ■	_ .. .... . ,. . ... ,'	•Meanwhile, the hospital services, which were paralysed by, an. incident and the arrest of; a hospital employee last,* night, were restored this morning when - the- employee was i released.;, .Aligarh: With troops1 standing' by and the police on continuous patrol, Aligarh under curfew was tense and free of incidents for the second day today..	■Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Hapur DisturbancesThe Times of India (J86J-current); Oct 7, 1961; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 7Hapur Disturbances“The Times of India” News Service HAPUR, October 6: Armed policemen stood guard at strategic points in this town where the situation continued to be tense today. All markets remained closed. A few cases of arson were reported.Several persons are understood to have been taken into custody. Meetings, processions and demonstrations have been banned.P.T.I. adds: Some persons were injured and about six shops were burnt down in the disturbances in Hapur today.Chandausi is CalmMORADABAD, October 6: Chandausi which was the scene of a communal disturbance on Wednesday,_ remained peaceful and no further incidents were reported today.After a few hours’ relaxation yesterday curfew was extended till today, and police vigilance continues.About ten “bad characters” were rounded up by the police.;The Chief Minister, Mr. C. B. Gupta, is expected in Chandausi this evening.CHINESE BUILD NEW ROAD Western TibetNANDPRAYAG, October 6: TheChinese are busy constructing a motor road from Tholing Math to Gartok, capital of western Tibet, according to reliable reports received here.Tholing Math, the most famous monastery in western Tibet, is reported to have been converted into a military camp by the Chinese. The place is said lo have also been connected by a motor road with Gunsa.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Violence mars 'Aligarh' stirThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jun 17, 1972; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1BARRING violent incidents a Ferozabad . in Agra distric and in' some areas of Varanasi, the call given, by pertain Muslin organisations—and 'thc Old Boys Association of Aligarh Universit) for the observance of protest daj on Friday was ignored by anc large.	'Curfew was clamped in Ferozabad and some localities of Varanasi following violent incidents provoked1 by the demonstrations, against the Aligarh Muslim University (Amendment) Act.__Curfew _was_ also ,enforced_fram _10p.m. to 7 a.nt. on Saturday in Agra sis a precautionary measure.	• -One person was killed and one injured at Ferozabad when a Provincial Armed Constabulary patrol fired in self-defence on a violent mob which was stoning the police. The incident occurred at Pur hi Cho.wk, near Shi-kohabad Gate, after Friday prayers.The trouble started when groups of demonstrators shouted slogans against, the government and Mrs. Indira Gandhi and. marched in procession tn defiance of the prohibitory orders enforced earlier under Section 144, Cr. P.C.The crowd set fire to some shops and also attacked a fire-engine which arrived there. They also attacked the Purbi Gate police post. About 20 police personnel, including the additional superintendent of police. Mr.I lari Singh, were injured. •__More companies of the PAC anda wireless unit have been rushed to lerorahad where the situation was officially staled to be tinder control late in the evening. The curfew will he in force for 24 hours from 5 p.m. on o Friday.A dnsk-ld-d.rwn curfew was.imposcd in four disturbed localities - of Varanasi following violent incidents. The police resorted to firing in the Madan-pura_area as lathi-charges and tear-gas provV’rl ineffective. In all nine rounds were ..fired _byjic._pi»licc._:__i____.VARANASI INCIDENTSNearly 20 people, including policemen. vlScrc injured. Two of the 12 injured taken to hospital from ’ Ma-danpura bore gunshot wounds. They were stated to have been shot at by some rioters from housetops.Some 100 people were taken into cusloilv. They included those'. arrested for throwing stones and anti-social elements rounded tip earlier in the day.The curfew-hound areas of Varanasi are Madanpura, Nai Sapak and Dalmatuif. Power transmission lines and telegraph wires snapped at several places when houjders wore hurled from housetops by rioters. At one place a handgrenade was reported to have l been Used against the police.According lo the district uuthpri-lics of Varanasi, a police patrol was virtually besieged by agitators. Stones sere thrown at the police from housetops. Another police party, led by llic superintendent. .Mr. A. K. tsnarma. and the deputy superintendent, Mr. S. P. C'handola. rescued the small patrol.No untoward incident was reported from any part of Aligarh where the curlew hours were advanced as a\pre-cauti^nary measure to 3 p.m. onwards instead of from 6 p.m. A black Hag demonstration was held there.Two persons were taken into custody for coercing shop-keepers to pull down their shutters. Some shops were open. / Intensive, patrolling by the police1 has continued since Thursday evening.Aligarh has been under curfewsince June 5. But it is gradually being relaxed. ’........ ,Lucknow, Allahabad, Moradabad and Kanpur districts, where the authorities have been specially vigilant, remained peaceful. ■Life in Kahpur city was normal. There was practically no response from the people to the call. In Allahabad, shops. were open in all areas of the town.	'STUDENT MARCHERS ■In Srinagar, students took out several processions in protest against the act,_ They demanded lhatthc minority character” of the university should be retailed. 	/ ” ~The demonstrators shouted slogans such as Indira Gandhi hai hai”, and “Mir Qasim hai nai. -Addressing a Friday congregation at Jama Masjjd. Moutvi Mohammed Farooq. chairman of the Awami action committee, expressed concern over the enactment of the act. He said it violated the constitutional guarantee <?f the < minority character of the university,	, ,New Delhi: The call for a bandit given by Muslim Majlis and. the Aligarh University Old Boys’ Association to protest against the Aligarh Mustim University (Amendment) Rill went unheeded in the capital on Friday.- Poona: A few shops in Mominpura, a predominantly Muslim locality, observed a hartal in response to the call by the local unit or the Muslim League to protest against the Aligarh Un i vc rs i ty—A me n d me n t .Act.	■—tttt.-:Hyderabad: A group of volunteers' of- the Indian Union Muslim League wearing black badges on Friday demonstrated in front of £aj Bhavan, demanding the restoration of- the Muslim character of Aligarh Muslim'. University.—P.T.I.	.:Stir a flop: PantThe Times of India” News ServiceBANGALORE. June 16: The response—to—the—calWor—demonstrations-in some places, against the passing of the Aligarh Muslim University Bill by Parliament - was feeble and the agitation passed off peacefully, by and' large. Mr. K. C. Pant, ' union minister of state for home affairs, said here today.	,Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿One killed in Kanpur clashThe Times of India (J86J-current); Nov 16, 1980; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1One killed in KanDur clashL-	.	“	■KANPUR, November 15 (PTI): p One person was killed and nine were y injured in a clash between two groups d of people in the Coolibazar area hero j- this evening.Fire arms and brickbats were used il in the clash. The trouble started when it some explosive objects was allegedly ts thrown on the roof *of a house which r- burnt a thached shed. Later attempts ). at arson were foiled. r. The police have arrested ten people o and intensified patrolling in the area.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Four killed in Jamshedpur riotingThe Times of India (J86J-current); Aug 29, 1979; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Four killed in JamshedpurPATNA, August 28 (UNI): 'lYUSK-TO-DAWN curfew was imposed in Jamshedpur today following rioting between two groups in which at least four people were killed and nearly 25 injured, according to the Bihar Inspector-general of 'Police, Mr. Rajeshwar Lai.	.Police reinforcements have also been rushed to the steel city. Mr. Lai said the police opened fire to< disperse themob, blit no one was ’killed' in; the firing. ’He said three battalions of the Central Reserve Police had been rushed to Jamshedpur and three more battalions would reach by tomorrow morning, In all 105 people had been arrested.The currew would .remain in force from 5 p.m. today to 7 a.m.Mr. Lai said today’s flare-up was a sequel to a bomb explosion in the Kadwa. area of the, town last night/ Soon after the explosion 40 people were rounded up. •This morning a mob attacked the Harijan tola. But no fresh violence was reported from any part of the town. Three bodies were recovered from Dhatkidih area and one from the Mango area.Mr. Lai said intensive police patrolling , was continuing and the situation was reported to be under control. The inspector-general would fly to Jamshedpur tomorrow morning to study, the situation.Extremists kill two constablesi	■	■in ImphalIMPHAL, August 28 (PTI): A gang of armed underground extremists shot a constable dead and snatched away two rifles from the Lamlai police station, 20 km. frpm here, last night, according to official, sources today. ,The extremists came in a jeep and inquired about the officer in charge of the police station who was out on patrol duty. . ..	.Immediately, 6ome of them whipped out pistols and fired, killing the sentry on duty, and escaped.This was the second shooting incident of the day by extremists.Earlier in the day, they had fired at a police escort party in a bid to free undertrial prisoners in the district and sessions judge’s court compound, killing one constable and injuring another.	'The. attacked freed one hardcore extremist undertrial ;whofn the police identified as Kauf Chandra, ;He had been apprehended in November in an encounter in Kameng, near here Curfew has been clamped in four villages of Imphal west sub-division till Saturday and prohibitory orders under section 144, OR. P.C., promulgated ni all court premises here for 15 days,	.	.Govt, safe, says PawarBy A Staff ReporterBOM.BAY, August 28: The proposed resignation of, Mr. S. B. Cha-van wouJd have no impact on the PDF government, the chief minister, Mn Sharad Pawar, said today.He told -reporters that the demandtor the, removal of. some other ministers would also have no effect on his government.He said the MSC leaders had criticised the PDF even during the zilla parishad elections. The party had been making “unrealistic demands” and this was not to the liking of many PDF members.	,_ With Mr. Chavan’s resignation, there would be a less bureaucratic approaoh to the commitments made for the welfare of the people, Mr. Pawar said,He added that many members of the MSC were supporters of the Congress (I) even when they joined the PDFHe	said	Mr. Chandra	Shekhar	andMr. Nanaji Deshmukh	had assuredhim that they would support the PDF government. -On the demand for the removal of Mrs. Shanti Naik, minister ol state	for	finance, Mr.	Pawar	saidhe would have to act on it. However,	he	would wait	for a	fewdays.	,	.	.MNF leader surrendersAIZWAL, August 28 (UNF): Mr Malsawma Coloney, who rose tc be the, ‘president’ of the outlawed Mizo National Front during late iasl year’s upheaval in the underground hierarchy, today surrendered and vowed to abide by the constitution.Mr. Coloney led his five hardcon associates in formally affirming allegiance to the constitution before th« Mizoram inspector-general of police, Mr. Ved _ Marwah.The brief surrender ceremony wa< held at the IGP’s office chambei here this morning Mr. Coloney h the brother of Mizoram Janata president, Mr. Hrangthanga.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿WORST CONFLAGRATION IN AHMEDABAD: 17 DIE, 85 HURT IN GROUP CLASHES ...The Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Apr 24, 1985; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg. 1lire Times of India News ServiceAHMEDABAD, April 23.HPHIS lias been the bloodiest day in the two-month-long antireservation agitation in Gujarat; 17 people have been killed and 85 injured in rioting and police firing in this city and hundreds of houses and huts have been set ablaze, rendering more than 5,000 people homeless in the labour areas of Bapu-nagar and Rakhial.The army has been deployed in strength in the labour belt and the police have fired more than 100 rounds there to disperse clashing mobs setting fire to private and public properties._ Anti-social elements went on the rampage last night and this morning, with the police nowhere in sight. The mobs moved from one area to another setting houses on fire, looting shops and attacking people with impunity. As all this was happening, the chief minister, Mr. Madhavsinh Solanki, claimed that the situation had been brought under control last night itself.The police and the army were rushed to the labour areas where violence has been at its worst today only in the forenoon. Meanwhile, trouble spillet over to the adjoining Naroda, Odhav and Sardarnagar localities. These witness ed rioting throughout the day.Overnight, looting and arson were reported at Vasna. Paldi, Kochart Ambawadi. Vadaj, Naranpura, Mirzapur, Khanpur, Gomtipur and Geeta mandir. The situation in these localities was brought under control only thi morning.Seven bodies which bore marks of severe burns were brought to the eivi hospital and three people succumbed to stab injuries and two to bullet wound there.Most mills closedClashes between pro-and anti-rcservationists were reported from tire Wadaj. Gomtipur, Geetamandir and Girdharnagar areas.Though the government had claimed that the policemen had resumed duty last night, only a few of them could be seen patrolling the streets. Panic-stricken people made frantic calls to newspaper offices last night and this morning, complaining about the absence of the police in their respective areas.Meanwhile, the president of the Gujarat unit of the Janata party, Mr. Indu-bhai Patel, who was attacked by a pro-reservationist mob, has been admitted to hospital. His car was damaged during the attack.'Hie police said this morning that a newly-built cinema on the national highway at Vasna was set ablaze last night. They also said that pro-reservation-ists went round in trucks last night, setting fire to houses and shops.The Municipal Transport Corporation ran at least skeleton services yesterday. But buses were completely withdrawn this morning. Autorickshaw drivers who dared to ply their vehicles in the morning gradually disappeared from the roads by the evening.Five newspapers — “Gujarat Samachar,” “Western Times,” “Indian Express,” “The Times of India” and “Jansatla” — did not come out. Printing presses of “Gujarat Samachar” and “Western Times” were destroyed by arsonists yesterday.Meanwhile, the High Court Bar Association has decided to boycott court work for two days in protest against attacks on press reporters, photographersand newspaper offices. The association adopted a resolution urging the Central government to impose President’s tule in the state in view of the deteriorating law and order situation.	,_ _ Two persons, one each at Naroda and Kalupur, have been killed in polici firing. A policeman who had been injured in stone-throwing has died in thi hospital.By evening, as many as 85 people injured in police firings, stabbing, groui clashes and stone-throwing had been admitted to different hospitals in tb city. Nineteen of the cases had been admitted to the V.S. Hospital.The police made repeated lathi-charge and burst hundreds of tear-gas shells in various localities but could not curb the increasing violence.• The situation had taken a dramatic turn for the worse yesterday evenim when the policemen abandoned their posts and rose in virtual, revolt in proles against the hacking to death of a head constable. Furious mobs, abetted'am encouraged by the policemen, caused unbelievable havoc in the city. Thing; were expected to improve last night sine* the policemen had been persuadet to return to duty and the anti-reservationists had suspended the agitation This did not happen.Most of the textile mills were closed today, as workers had left their unit; in panic. Hundreds of other industrial units have also remained closed sinc< last night.The entire walled city is under curfew. It was not relaxed at all (lurin' the day. Shops and establishments remained closed in the western, part o; the city for the fourth consecutive day today.The Gujarat Journalists’ Union president, Mr. Ramesh Shah, has con- Police excessesdemned- the attack on journalists and newspaper offices. He demanded com- ___________________________________________plete protection to journalists in the discharge of their duties.A report from Surat said that Mr. Mohanbhai Desai, a reporter of “Gujarat ' Samachar” and member of the Janata party, went on an indefinite fast near the statue of Mahatma Gandhi there in protest against police atrocities and attacks on working journalists.	.their programmes in the city and other curfew-bound areas in the state with a view to helping the authorities re-establish peace and normalcyIn a statement here today, Mr. Balubhai Patel, general secretary of the federation, said that the agitationists would not be cowed do™ Sy the rep,e£ sive action of the government till their demands were met	Pih,-, LaT! Cir devueI°Pment> the Dalit Muslim Baxi Panch Ekta Samiti has thitatened to launch a counter-agitation to conform with the anti-reservationistsfhe stale unit of the CPM has appealed to the reservationisls and the anu-reservationists to call off their agitations and help maintain peace in theut\. It also condemned the police atrocities and asked the leftist democratic forces to unite against “these fascist tendencies.”	oemocraucThe state CPI unit has asked the people to withdraw the agitationsI* *TI & UNI add:.	,	'-	.	iThe railway track on the Western Railway’s Ahmedabad-Bhavnagar metrendiSV?C '0n i”ear Ghatlodia area was dab»aged by miscreants who removed iish plates and set fire to some wooden sleppers.Western railway area superintendent Aryamitra told UNI this morning fiiat the track was repaired and the traffic-on this section was now restored Two passenger trains for Saurashtra region from Bombay and Ahmedabad were detained last night.A railway engine driver was also injured when some stones were hurled at Jmn near crhahibaugh area.	■The police burst ten tear-gas shells to quell stone-throwing mobs in some areas m Baroda today Barring these sporadic incidents, the overall situation in Baroda was officially stated to be “under control”, while army and police continued to patrol the streets.	y p011ceThe. incidents of stoning were reported from Mehta Pole, Tower Char Rasta and Mandvi areas. An attempt to set ablaze a branch of a bank was made, in Mangal Bazar area late last night, fire brigade sources said.Members of the Surat Medical Association have decided to observe a day’s token strike tomorrow.The vice-president of the Saurashtra Navarachna Samiti has given a call in Bhavnagar for a regional bandh on Thursday-to protest against polilce atrocities and the government’s failure to maintain law and order. Students of Bhavnagar made bonfires of their examination papers today.• Meanwhile, the Gujarat Secondary Education Board declared the summer vacation for all schools from today without conducting the standard X and Xllth final examinations which were postponed twice earlier.According to Mr. A. I. Vora, the board examinations would be held after the vacations and schools reopening on June 4. He said the fresh dates would be announced, giving atleast 15 days’ time to the examinees tor preparation.The board examinations, which were first scheduled to begin on March 18, were postponed by a week in the wake of the anti-reservation agitation which began in the last week of February. As the situation turned from bad to worse on”March 18, the day the agitationists had given the call for “Gujarat bandh”, the authorities postponed the board examinations indefinitely.The All-Gujarat Parents Federation and the All-Gujarat Navrachana Sa-miti, which are spearheading the anti-reservation agitation, have postponedMeanwhile, in a new development, residents of Ghadiali Pole locality — where a police sub-inspector was allegedly roughed up — have complained of police excesses in the area. They alleged that the police gatecrashed into houses and smashed vehicles.	..i fb’s cy,cninp>, ^‘re tenders were engaged in extinguishing the flames in the Gujarat Samachar” building which was set on fire by infuriated police personnel yesterday. The fire brigade was unable to give the estimate of damage to the newspaper building and its machineries and other properties. The three-storey building was said to have been declared unsafe for occupation. ah a	anti-reseryationists stoned and set fire to the car of CongressMLA, Mrs. Indira Solanki, in Surat this afternoon. However, she was not in the car when the attack occurred.	-The chief minister, Mr. Madhavsinh Solanki, today regretted the police attack on press offices, reporters and photographers yesterday, and said- “It •was very unfortunate”.Talking to reporters after going round the affected areas, he said, reseat-ment had arisen among the “civilian” police personnel because of the “antipolice” reports in the press. •	•	.	1at c^aVned that SRP and CRP personnel were not involved in the attack. Mr. Solanki ruled out any punitive action against the erring police personnel who indulged in violence in Ahmedabad yesterday.GPP°sliion leaders expressed surprise that while the Union home minister *lr' ,	; van’ look exception to ihe act of indiscipline of the police inAhmedabad. Mr. Solanki sought to defend them. 'The Juef minister and the home minister, Mr. Amarsinh Chaudhari,arson spreadsTTAd ri 0f thj a«ected localid<* today, told newsmen this evening returnhe ^ ^ Pa$Sed °2 peacefuU* and hoPed that normalcy would soonMr. Solanki admitted there was. some tension in the labour areas whererofnLf^ieSt ?annS aUacks by mobs’ had fled their homes and sought refuge with relatives or in camps set up by the- police in-the locality.cat®S°rically stated that the army had no* been given in thp Kh ihe fty ,b.Ut °uy cal.led °.ut t0 assist The police force. However,L ,L h lofI,y’ v:’here alegatl0us of Police excesses were made, oijjy the troops were deployed, he said.	■	mTrioo.Mr- ->:>lankl also said that adequate army jawans were standing by to burns a£e s^d^ ^ S°mC °f th* victims of'last night’s clashes died ofAfter last night’s incidents, an indefinite curfew was clamped- in thevinafr £rd S^me .otber areas under the Gomtipur police station and would be enforced strictly, he said. Mr. Solanki said the .authorities fedtroubledarels. ^ toenSure protectkmof life and Pr0P**T in ailthe^National debate .Meanwhile, a delegation of opposition leaders, including the former chief ministers, Mr. Babubhai Patel and. Mr. Chimanbhai Patel met the acting fn°Vrnn?r’iDr; P: Gokujkrishnan, and demanded that the army should be put in control cl Ahmedabad because the state government had “failed in its primary responsibility of protecting the lives and property of the people”.. ,A Ja*n£a Pa[ly spokesman told UNI that the delegation had pointed out to the governor that tension continued to prevail in the city and that incidentsThe^-my06 ^ occurred td thls morning in spite of intensive patrolling byThe Times of India News Service adds from New Delhi: There is noETVn 0 Change °f leadershiP in Gujarat, Dr. (Mrs.) Rajendra Kumari Bajpai, Congress general secretary, said here today.vmWPl^nSAi° T?1?1* f/om .newsmen at the AICC headquarters on the violence n Ahmedabad and other parts of Gujarat, Mrs. Bajpai wonderedin office1* b€ spevlaa0n on,the chief minister of the state continuing in office. If the opposition created trouble in every state did it mean that the chief minister should be changed? She asked.nrtr A^cording t0' Mrs; Bajpai, those behind the agitation and violence were no itLXLT *SbUt °nly fishing ^ troubled waters for their own petty blem ” she seid Vfence ls n0t s°mg t0 Producc the answer to any pro-nv3a!Uu .?at there ,wer5 divergent views, on the reservation issue. Mrs. Hnitp1 • 1 ho.e spea/huead‘ng the current agitation in Gujarat should participate in a national debate on the issue so that a solution acceptable to all could be found. She pointed out that the declared policy of her party was to render assistance to the weaker and vulnerable sections of society.On the attacks on the press in Ahmedabad, the AICC general secretaryIS ;a en.t y ,Wr°ng t0 thr.ow b^bs or set on fire newspaper establish men s and to attack newsmen jnst because they wrote against the government, this simply could not be done in free India, where freedom' of the press mus, remain inviolate, she said. At the same time, the press had a responsible role to play and should cooperate with the government wherever possible.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Violence spreads in BiharSingh, JanakThe Times of India (1861-current); May 4, 1981; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1By JANAK SINGHBIHARSHARIF, May 3.^POMMONALISM has raised its ugly head again in Bihar, Already it has claimed over 20 lives, resulted in injuries to about 50 people, and provoked arson, rioting and j. looting of houses and shops at different places in mianaa district. While this town, which witnessed furious rioting in the past few days, remains under curfew, the trouble is spreading to neighbouring villages. .. Several, hundred families evacuated to safer places from villages and localities in Biharsharif itself give the lie to the claim that the contagion is under control. Even a funeral procession was reportedly attacked at Adamnagar today.	'According to reports received here, warring groups traded missiles at Lalbagh, Garibpur, Jararpur and Chistipur villages. The induction of para-military forces into these areas so far appears to have had no effect on the militants.Last night, over 100 terrorised men, women and children, some of them with gashing wounds inflicted by lathi blows, bomb splinters or whizzing bullets, were brought to the ‘police station here even as this cor. respondent was befng told by the police chief that “the situation is under control”.That the state government is trying to play down the magnitude of the violence is obvious from the 'statements reportedly made by one of its spokesmen at a press briefing at Patna yesterday. A hand-out issued earlier -when the government had full information about casualties said that only two people had died.. \ ' • .Due to the government’s anxiety to conceal facts, it is difficult to say anything *about the exact number of casualties. Heart-rending stories about missing sons, husbands,-brothers and fathers were heard by this correspondent * in> Several houses, which have overnight become refugee camps for people, fleeing from riot-hit mixed -localities. It is possible that these“missing” people, might be among the 200 taken into custody so far.# The administration could at least inform the relatives of people who have been taken into custody about their arrest to minimise the ordeal of the people now huddling in fear in the refugee camps. However, an official spokesman claimed that in’ quiries made by the police had * revealed that only three people were missing from Alinagar.While on the one hand, the fear-struck refugees have no inkling about the whereabouts of those missing, on the^ other hand they are virtually facing starvation. Many people, whom this correspondent . met apparently had nothing to eat for the last few days. .Barring small groups of armed personnel posted at a couple of crossings in the interior of Bihar-sharif, there was virtually no patrolling in this curfew-bound town yes-One person was killed when the police opened fire to quell an unruly mob violating curfew at the Sohdih area in Biharsharif town of Nalanda district on Sunday, according to dfiicial sources in Patna.terday. With hardly anybody op the streets, the town wore a deserted look. Now and then the eerie silence was broken by country-made bombs exploding at distant places, where despite “shoot-at-sight orders” warring ^ groups were engaged in terrorising each other - by hurling missiles;- ; .	t;VIOLENCE CONFIRMEDSeveral scared residents whom this correspondent met in. deserted lanes said patrolling or no patrolling, warring (groups were engaged in hurling bombs at each other until the Small hours of Thursday night, before iri-defiinite curfew was clamped down on the town. The explosions continued to shatter nocturnal peace agaiin on’ Friday. .“Luckily these are country'-made explosives and do not result in much damage unless aimed properly. However, they do succeed in creating a psychosis of fear from which the whole of Biharsharif is suffering., today. I cannot go out because I fearmy neighbour might stab me”, said one of the scared residents.A round of the curfew-bound town revealed that the administration, instead of healing wounds by rushing help and providing relief to the riot victims, . was, by its inaction, strengthening the wall of suspicions and mistrust dividing the two communities concerned. Here and there, plumes of smoke could be seen rising from smouldering shops or houses set on fire during-the day.A senior official of the district administration, who did not want to be identified, safd, “Why can’t the government hand over the entire area -to the army for a week or so to restore peace?” .He added, “I don’t think the present administration can handle the situation.”Nursing a wound on her arm at the local civil hospital, a young woman who had been evacuated from Jamali Chuk village, said: “For three days, our village remained surrounded by marauders. Since all the villagers were united and hurling missiles at the assailants, we felt safe. As there, was no let-up in the fighting, we sought shelter in a doctor’s house. When the ruffians, with the assistance of some of our own villagers, started looting	our houses,we fled. Had the police arrived yesterday, or even early	today, theycould have scared away the ruffians and at least saved our property. All that we had has been lodted.”It would be, wrong to say that both the communities which had been living happily together all over Nalanda district until Thursday afternoon have been seized with- morbid frenzy to attack each other. Actually, both die communities now appear to be in a vice-like grip of mutual fear. The saner and sensible elements from both sides are trying to defuse the situation or minimise the damage. For instance, several people this; ^ correspondent met repeatedly mentioned the pa me of one Basant Babu of Magra Gaon who had reportedly offered shelter to members of the minority community and tried to help them escape to safety out of the village.A rickshaw puller residing in the Purani Kachcheri locality in Biharsharif, said but for his neighbour, he and his family would have become thew victims of arson. Rajikue skid, “With a gun in his hand, my neighbour pleaded with me to leave my house and seek shelter elsewhere.”A resident of Jawali Chuk village reportedly acted as a goodContinued on Page 9 Column 3Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.Continued from Page 1 Column 3Samaritan to several. families caught in the crossfire of communal frenzy.While several local residents put the blame for the outbreak of violence on RSS elements active in town, the refugees from Jamali Chuk, asked to give the reason for the sudden attack on them, said it vas apparently the result of happenings in Rihnrsharif. Rumours had spread fast in neighbouring villages and suddenly turned lifelong friends into unrelenting foes.Asked to give the reason for the Hidden eruption of violence, an old esident said “It is difficult to give any :xplan?.(ion. There was hardly any’ political' activity or provocative move-nent before the noting began on. Phursduy evening, It could be the remit of deep-rooted, latent animosities.”A citizen inspected by both communities said, “It is difficult to say why the two communities suddenly became hostile. The disaute always starts with liquor, gamb-'ng, graveyards or land. Before any. >ody can do anything about it, it takes t communal colour. Unfortunately, his is the -tradition of this place. But tad the administration been strict and aken effective measures to flush out irms the prertou situation would not lave arisen.”Inquiries revealed that tension be-weert the two communities had been j’uilding up for some time because of i dispute over a graveyard. It is stated hat an idol was installed ip the leighbou rhood of a graveyard in the jagandiwan locality some time aeo. \s this became the cause of friction be-vveen the two communities the administration ordered barricading of the traveyard and also set up a police post tearby. Apparently, this arrangement vas not to the liking of extremists on >oth sides and gave rise to mutual mis-tnderstanding.On Thursday afternoon, in the(Gagandiwan locality a toddy-tapper lhad placed his pot on the ground. This jpot was reportedly carried away by ttwo youths bemfiging to another com-imunity. When the tapper protested, it lied to a brawl. More people collected tthere and the brawl got converted into <a riot. After this, hostile, mobs reportedly started attacking each other. With effective intervention by the {police)' the situation could have been jleait/with then and there. Unfor-Innately, while the law and order machinery was gearing itself tc/meet the ssiluation, fresh violence broke out at might. Th^. authorities apparently felt tlhat clamping down curfew was the , (only way out and, consequently, it was iimposed from 5 a.m. on Friday.Despite the clamping down of; cur-ffew, violence continued unbaled in IMuradpur, Subzabazar, Kona Sarai, IPurani Kachcheri, Alinagar and Jltim INagar localities.WAIL OF VICTIMSThere was more violence wlt^n the {people1 collected at shrines for prayers, /According to official1 sources, at least ecight people, including six women and ai child, lost their lives in the violence con Friday. But unofficial sources claim-esd that the casualties on Friday were llieavier.	,The teenager! wife of a person who ittsed to earn his liv:ng by pasting ce’nema-postcrs said her husband was sstabbed to death jin front of her eyes. /As the assailants swooped on a house, tthey hit an infant born a day ago and sstabbed its mother. In her dying declamation. the mother is reported to have iidentified her assailants.The wife of a hospital chaprasi said Iher husband went out of the house at .3 p.m. on Friday and had not returned ssince. The wife of a rickshaw puller wailed she had not seen her husband ffor three days. The wife of another rickshaw puller said their hutment in IMuradpur tvas set on fire.The 14-year-old daughter of another’rickshaw puller who was due to be irnarried. in a couple of months, burst jinto uncontrollable sobs while staling ithat her entire ‘ trousseau had been looted. A young woman.fell at the ifeet of this correspondent seeking, his Ihelp to trace the husband of her sister-itn-law.. A grief stricken old man burst iinto tears like a child sayVig that his “‘Even if they have- killed him. ‘“Even if they have* killed him; whv ’why can’t lhey give me his body,” A iinason said two of his daughters were imissinc.	: .Apparently, there was total collapse <of law and order in the town giving a {free hand to anti-social elements from Iboth communities. It is difficult to jimaglne how husbands could haVe been ■separated from their wives, sons from itheir fathers, brothers from their setters especially when ihey were running ifor safetv to localities which	were{populated by members of their own (Comirmnit'es. Had the nnlice	beenground, and resorted-to .firing in the tair, such things would not have oc-<curred.on such a scale/ AHe'm'ions were imade by many people of the partisan irole nlayed by the police in certain floenfities,The divisional commiss'oner, Mr. P. |K. Mishra. and the deputy inspeetpr-(getnernl of police. Mr. D. N. Sahav, twho have been camoVia here’since the (outbreak of the violence, denied the i' lvire that the administration had lfa:bd In give protect'On to the peonle.Mr.. Mishra, however, admitted “May Ibe on the first day when the trouble (Started there was hot adequate policing iin some localities. Franklv. no admitris-ttration could have anticipated the (scale and magnitude of trouble which .Erupted here. As soon as; we sensed tthe gravity of the situation, we took {adequate and effective measures. Secu-lrity forces called from outside werf iinducted into the town to keep the {Peace and provide protection to the people.”	'Both Mr. Mishra and Mr. Sahay (denied that any violence had taken place n*nr mosques where the people find collected for the Friday prayers, Thev mainta.Vied that because of the curfew, people could not come out of their houses’. “But some houses were attacked in the Alinagar area. Soon the situation was brought under control.”POLICE VERSIONMr. Mishra mainfained that the trouble started only because of the brawl between toddy-tappers and two youths. He said the graveyard problem, which had given rise to tension earlier, had been sorted out and defused.The Bihar government has had to summon CRPF and BSF contingents to control the situat'on in the town. At 5 p.m. yesterday, this correspondent saw a BSF company staging a flag march in one of the main bazars of the town. ' •Meanwhile, the. chief minister. Dr. Jagannath Mishra, told newsmen in Pgtna today that anti-social elements who tried to vitiate the peaceful atmosphere and create a law and order problem, would be dealt with severely, he warned that anybody found spreading communal disharmony and rumours would be brought to book.The chief minister expressed his anguish oyer the happenings in Bihar-sharif and said it was extremely painful, unfortunate and inhuman. The government would take drastic action against the culprits.Dr. Mishra also announced payment of R,s. 10,000 to the next of kin of each person killed' in the incidents at Biharsharif.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Police Open Fire: CALICUT RIOT Eight Persons InjuredThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Mar 29, 1954; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Police OpenCALICUT RIOTEight Persons Injured“The Times of India News ServiceCALICUT, March 28. Eight men were injured this evening when the police opened fire on a defiant mob which attacked them in front of a mosque at Naduvaltam, three miles froin here.A contingent of armed Malabar Special Police was rushed to the scene as a large crowd gathered to prevent a procession, accompanied by music, from passing in front of the mosque.The District Magistrate, Malabar, who reached the spot accompanied by the District Superintendent of Police, ordered a lathi-charge when the crowd threw stones at the police, and refused to disperse.The mob then grew unruly, attacked them with iron bars. Some policemen were injured and the helmet of a constable was smashed.The police then opened fire.The injured persons were taken to a hospital.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Army out in BarodaThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jun 30, 1985; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1.the Times of India News Service jBARODA, /June-29.rpHR£Ecp$opte died, i inp^fice X - finqgs #nd: 46- lOtherS; ^injured in', stabbings, acid*bulbt attacks &s also firings ‘wdrd1- taken' to ^hospital iii*the: walled 'area^df lthe bity1 td« day-whenviolenc#.:flaredi.up: on a large -scale turning the cojour balloon festival' into' a‘ nightmare for most people.	t !, The army was Called.outin Baroda to assist the police following violent incidents late last night and today; from the trouble-tom areas under the, city and Wadi police stations. >	;The police fired 37 rounds to break group clashes which continued even! after an indefinite curfew' was clatop. ed on the Wadi police station area this evening. .	,	7,Of the three killed in the firings, one was a woman who was hit in the head. Most of the injured rushed to hospital in a serious' edndition were from the notorious trouble spots like Bawamanpura, < Swamiriara* yan /Street, Rani Gat?, Aadi Nawa* para, Mognulwada and Mptiwor Vad, The striking hospital staff rose' to the occasion to attend to the wound* ed. ■ ,	,f . ,The police fired in the air to dis* perse. a mob in Surat when lobbing of teargas shells failed to have any effect and pelting of stones and other missiles continued on a police party. The mob also uprooted; telephone pole? and erected4pura,: Vadi.‘ Fafia and > jUl/Gate,' areas of the city. Sojne miscreants- setf oh fire'! some wooden cabins, in the;; stal-tion areas.' -'.7- \7 / N-- ■ - 7 -. V 7• Incidents of violence .were, again reported from Sojitra. town in Kaira . district where two people /Were Injured in police firing' and1 three others, in group plasKes...	.. . '/ 777Tie/ town* fiasTlicw placed‘/'dgindei indefinfie curfew.. The curfew' was relaxed for/three hours in the morning- iif Jamakgar -city. The mdefinitp! ^reclamped in, mostof the* leeahfiMtols were recovered-from/v dififeent people- In Sayla tallica of nagar i district yesterday by thd' M*-> harSshtra police with me help -.of local police. The seiipre followed • tip-off- from ijh Sikh youth wbo:!*e-portedly told ^the Jalgaoh ^police that be-had;,sold th4l1r'earitai\to:: sonde pto* pie'id'SaiimshtraN . ’ , ' t v- /,v.,The'- situation , to' Abmefiabad /remained 'completely .peaceful../ today. Despite /the call /by;the /NagbV'Pagla Samiti, an offshoot of the 'Nayragh* na Sahiiti, for “trade baridh” for lab* indefinite period,munity preferred to ignore it,-;; -. AH markets business^ establishments, banks and other commercial: activities continued in the city : witbohrahy hindrance. Municipal bnses also; plied on almost all . routes. f :The night curfew wgs continuing in Broach and Viramgamtowns as aSunday Ktikv b ct an efetepaft this edition.«itb:: dprecautionary measure.' .	. ... PTI adds: A!• report 'from Bhav-nagar said the Akbii. Gujarat TNav< rachiia Samiti has gi^n & call for Bbavnagar bandh on Mohd&y in ^support; of theand/Panchayat employees, ^ who are demanding abortion. of . .the caste* based roster system.'df .pfomotiob* •' The strike entered^ thie 23rd day today, .>•	v .•KT7/VY;.>’'.. An^ all-Indias conyentfcai; v;‘<bn iiib ^‘seu-respCct, protectionTadd' Save' re-'seryatfon’?: Organised -by, / the/: Dalit iibetatioa Army and' ]^t«MttSlim-mmoritiespfbtection>|edebi!tih>y would be held ^n July 14 to jwissg their demanas,; jlckjding/ Mi&^menta* tion ' of increased - IS' per ic«^v quota for ,other: tmekwafo4 (^stes;fo Oujaiwt.^ Ksclosingi, .this here, M iiispesidtnt,Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿HOLI CLASHES IN GUJARATThe Times of India (J86J-current); Mar 25, 1962; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 6HOLI CLASHES IN GUJARATTen Killed And 23 InjuredAHMEDABAD, March 24; Ten persons were killed and 23 injured in Holi clashes in several areas of Gujarat, according to delayed reports reaching here.Most, of the incidents occurred in Baroda and Panch Mahals Districts.A report of a father killing his son in the festival clash was also received from Baghodia taluka, in Baroda District.In some areas the Scheduled Tribes used axes and spears freely. _ _In Gadhi1 village, in Rajkot division, a fire which broke out on Holi Day gutted about a dozen houses and caused considerable damage to property.-—P.T.I.Gaya: Five members of a group of Holi revellers were injured two of them seriously, when they were attacked by an armed mob on Friday in Dengra, 27 miles from Gaya.Farrukhabail: Two persons were killed and six others received minor lathi and gunshot injuries in a clash between the Thakurs and Jatavas of Bhaupur on Friday.—P.T.I.Dr. Hatta In DelhiDELHI, March 24: Dr. Mohammed Hatta. a former Vice-President of Indonesia. arrived here today on a four-day visit to the country.During his stay in the capital as a guest of the Government of India, Dr. Hatta will meet the Prime Minister and the Ministers for Planning and Community Development. He will aka wit . Agra,	/Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Sanghatana leaders heldA Staff ReporterThe Times of India (1861-current); Nov 10, 1981; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1By A Staff ReporterBOMBAY, November 9.TOP' leaders of the Shelkari Sanghatana were detained in judicial custody today on tile eve of the’ “rail-rasta roko”. agitation to be launched by the sanghatana to press its demand for remunerative prices for agricultural produce.Reports reaching here said those sent to judicial custody included Mr. Sharad Joshi, his wife, Mrs. Leela, Mr. Madhavrao Ki More and two other activists.They were .arrested in Dhule yesterday, official sources said, and were remanded to judicial custody today by a magistrate at Sakri.A number of arrests have been made in Nasik district, the centre of. last yearV agitation by the sanghatana. Meetings, processions and carrying of lethal weapons have been banned in several districts,-considered “sensitive”.Incidentally, the resumption of agitation. tomorrow marks the first anniversary of the_ death of two personsagain in cityBy A Staff ReporterBOMBAY, November 9: The police fired a few rounds to quell rioting among two gronps in the Masjid Bunder area under the Dongri. police station late this evening, according to nonofficial sources.The police control room maintained a studied silence over the incident. An officer told this paper that he was acting under instructions.Meanwhile, Musafirkhana, Jan-jikar Street, Pydhonie, and Dongri areas continued to have a tense air over them following yesterday’s rioting; ' Heavy police bandobust under the personal supervision of top officials was being maintained.Preventive arrests, Page 9in police firing on “rail roko” agitator# in Nasik.Meanwhile, Mr. Gulabrao Patil, president of the MPCC (I), in a statement said his party and the state government were always sympathetic towards the farmers’ demands for remunerative prices and much had been done during the last one year. He called on the people not to participate, directly.or. indirectly, in the agitation by some, misguided elements.Pune: Nearly 5,000. farmers are ex-peeled to block all road and rail traffic around Pune • in response to the “rasta roko” call given by the Shetkari Sanghatana, reports our special correspondent.The government, however, feels that a 5 ag*tati°n wiH be a minor affair. Adequate police and SRP force has been deployed at strategic . point# throughout the district.A spokesman of the Shetkari San-ghatana told newsmen today that the farmers would .block -the rail tracks near Daund and Nira stations. They would also squat at a dozen points on Pune-Nagar road, Pune-Solapur and Pune-Satara- roads.	‘The police commissioner has bannedthe assembly of five or more persons under section 37(3) of the BPT Act as i precautionary measure. ■UNI adds:	...Railway and road transport authorities said they would make all efforts trains and buses as usual, seeking police protection wherever necessary. Some “pilot trains” would be run to assess the situation, a Central Railway spokesman in Nagpur said.	.Central and Western Railway spokesmen at there headquarters inBombay said no train had been cancelled,Sangll (UNI): The Congress {©y0IkerSi! Mr‘ Akaram Patil, who md been organising tomorrow’s rasta roko” agitation, was arrested lere on Monday evening, the police ;aid. ......'Aurangabad (PTI): Mr. Uttamrao Patil, ^ president of Maharashtra’s Bharatiya Janata Party, on. Mondav permitted BJP workers in the state o participate in tomorrow’s “rail md rasta roko” agitation called by be.Shetkari Sanghatana.Addressing ■ a conference of farmers and farm labourers here on Monday,. Mr. Patil • said the BJP would not participate in this agita-:ion on’ the party, level, but its worfc-srs ^ could participate- as individual# if they wanted.	•.	:Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Arson, looting in AllahabadThe Times of India (1861-current); Mar 17, 1968; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1in ANEW DELHI, March 16: A 16-hour curfew, ending at 6 a.m. tomorrow, was imposed in parts of Allahabad city today after groups of people had roamed about in a spree of arson, looting and throwing brickbats.One person was killed and several others, including many policemen, 'were injured in today's incidents which began when a group of Holi revellers clashed with another group of people in Nakkhas Kohna over the splashing of colours.kilty persons have been arrested.Armed police are patrolling the city.The situation was officially described this evening as ‘‘tense” but under control.A police constable sustained a gunshot injury and was removed to hospital. The alleged culprit, who was liring from a house top, was arrested and the gun seized.In another incident, acid and brickbats were thrown on a police party, injuring some policemen.—P.T.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Meerut tense, one fatally stabbedThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Aug 13, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 8Meerut tense, one fatally stabbedThe* Times of India News ServiceMEERUT, August 12: Tension gripped the trouble-prone localities of jthe walled city late last evening,-following a clash, between members of two communities inwhichone person was stabbed to death in the thickly-populated Baniya Fada locality. Three others were critically injured. ;/ V .y ' i According to the police, MrChand PrakashRastogi, 46,of BaniyaPada yvas fotally .stabbed by members of another community at 5 p.m. After one Mr Yuatif of Saha Nathan, who wa8goingon,hismotorcycle,sus-i tained a bullet injury; His condition is reported to be critical . The second, incident occulted in the8amelocalityhalf.an hourlater when two.perion*, Mr Ashol^ 48, and Mr Vijay;43, were stabbed again by : miscreants. \	: ./. Police iotlrces said brick-batting between members of the two cpm-munities was also reported from several sensitive localities ip the walledCity.	'Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿17 hurt in firing in QuilonThe Times of India (J86J-current); Dec 5, 1985; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 617	hurt in firing in QuilonTRIVANDRUM, December 4 (PTI): The police fired in the air to disperse two clashing groups at Puthia-kavu in Karuntgapally near Quilon on Sunday night, according to delayed reports reaching here.The clash was a sequel to a dispute over the use of some land in front of a place of worship. When the police rushed to the spot and intervened, the groups indulged in stonethrowing and 17 persons, including five policemen, were injured.A toddy shop, two sheds and a stationery shop were set on fire during the disturbances.Four persons were taken into custody in connection with the incidents. Strong police pickets have been posted in the area and prohibitory orders have been imposed.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Communal clashes in marble townThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jul 16, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 15Communal clashes in marble townThe Times of India News ServiceJAIPUR, July 15: The marble town of Makrana has witnessed three violent clashes involving two communities in a span of one, month and the atmosphere Continues to be surcharged.On Sunday, nearly 70 people, armed with hockey sticks and daggers, arrived from Borawa, four km from Makrana, in a private bus and attacked some houses near the railway crossing.During the hour-long attack ashuttle train coming from Parvatsar to Makrana had to be stopped at the outer signal for about 45 minutes. No casualty or serious injury was reported as the assailants fled after someone fired two shots in the air.Intervention by the local MLA, Mr Abdul Aziz, saved the situation. He has accused the police of “inaction for although some men from the state CID were present during the clash they did not take any action.Mr Abdul Aziz today met the state home minister, Mr Gulab Singh Shaktawat, and told him that if precautionary measures were not taken in Makrana soon, communal violence could erupt any time. He also pleaded for deployment of additional police force in the town.Mr Aziz informed the minister that two clashes involving two communities had occured earlier at a local cinema. In one case, the son of the pradhan of the panchayat samiti was allegedly involved.Hindu Andolan expels TupeThe Times of India News ServicePUNE, July 15: The Maharashtra State Hindu Ekta Andolan (MSHEA), an organisation of militant youths, has expelled the president of its Pune unit,Mr Vilas Tupe, for taking up action programmes that were beyond the organisation’s capacity.Some time back Mr Tupe had announced that the Hindu Ekta would demolish the Rajneesh Ashram before January 26 with the help of a specially created commando force. This was given wide media coverage both within the country and abroad. However, this proved to be merely art empty threat as the Rajneesh Ashram continues to function normally.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿11 injured in clash in AhmedabadThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 19, 1969; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 111	injured in clash in AhmedabadAHMEDABAD; September 18: Eleven people were injured, four of them seriously, in a clash between two communities in the Jamalpur area of Ahmedabad today. The four were admitted to hospital.A large posse of policemen rushed to ihe disturbed area to bring the situation under control, 'fill late at night a strong contingent of policemen was patrolling the main areas of the city to maintain ordersThe trouble started when a group of jscoplc stoned cows and women going to a place of wor>hip. The other group retaliated with brickbats.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿BELGIAN EMBASSIES IN MANY CAPITALS ATTACKEDThe Times of India (1861-current); Feb 16, 1961; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1CAPITALS ATTACKEDDemonstrators, protestingagainst, the killing of the Congo’s first Prime Minister, Mr. Patrice Lumumba, caused damage in a number of Belgian Embassies, from Amsterdam to Melbourne, on Wednesday. The demonstrations followed those in Moscow and Belgrade and other cities on Tuesday.In Warsaw, 300 demonstrators hurled bricks and stones at the Embassy windows, and shouted, “Murderers, murderers”.There were a few Africans among them.About 12 of the demonstrators, most of whom were young men, forced open the door of the Embassy, ransacked the visa section, and then ran up the stairs to the Embassy offices.EMBASSY PAPERS BURNTThey grappled with diplomats, scattered violet ink about the rooms and grabbed armfuls of documents.One shaken diplomat said. “They even went fc^r the women staff.”The demonstrators made a bonfire of Embassy papers on the road outside, while the Embassy staff~a handful of officials and their secretaries— took shelter from flying stones in the corridor.The Belgian Embassy building in Cairo was set on fire by demonstrators. .Fires started by them quickly gotout of control and the whole building went ablaze.Six fire-engines were fighting the flames but it looked as if the Embassy would be completely gutted., Thousands of frenzied demonstrators were still massed around the blazing building shouting insults against the Belgians.Demonstrators also stoned the British Embassy and the United Nations headquarters, burned two American-owned cars and started a small fire at the rear of the U.S. Embassy.NOTHING SAVEDA Belgian Embassy official said that the Ambassador, Mr. Maurice Deechoutte, and the rest of the Embassy staff were “all safe” and that there had been no casualties among them. The official said they had escaped to a secret meeting place but that nothing had apparently been saved from the contents of the Embassy.As firemen fought to prevent the fire from reaching adjacent buildings, demonstrators burned three cars they found in the Embassy garage.In Teheran, students threw stones at the police and the firemen who were trying to disperse them with firehoses.In Accra, about 3.000 Ghanaians surged to the U.S. Embassy and then to the U.N. offices where they tore the U.N. flag to pieces.In Lyons, 100 African students battled with the police, About 10 ofthem were detained for identity checks.Amsterdam:	Two Netherlandspolicemen were injured in a clash with a group of about 200 young men who demonstrated on Tuesday night in front of the Belgian Consulate-General here in protest against the murder of Mr. Lumumba.The clash occurred when the police used force to disperse the demonstrators.	.Melbourne: About 25 people staged a quiet demonstration in front of the Belgian Consulate here on Wednesday to express “horror” at the killing of the deposed Congolese Prime Minister, Mr. Lumumba.Rabat; About 200 Moroccan students ( marched through Rabat this morning shouting “Death to imperialism” in a parade protesting against the killing of Mr. Lumumba. The students staged brief demonstrations outside the U.S. Embasy and the Belgian Embassy. When they moved towards the Moroccan Royal Palace, police reinforcements were sent to strengthen the guard outside the palace. After a demonstration outside the Palace, the students dispersed. There were no outbreaks of violence, Similar demonstrations were held outside Belgian Consulates in Fez and Casablanca.Moscow:	Delegations representingfactory workers and others streamed all day into the Belgian, British, U.S. and French Embassies here to protest against the killing of Mr. Lumumba,Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿3 killed in TN group clashThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jul 15, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1i kitted in TNsrouD clashMADRAS, July 14 (PTI & UNI): Three persons were tailed and 11, including a police inspector, were injured when the police fired at- two cMinggpups MQn®^Q.4fent communities today atAnipukottai in Kamarajar district, official sources here said.The sources said the clash occurred when some persons of a community objected to die erection of a flag post by the other community near a place of worship.While six of the injured were admitted to Arupukottai government hospital, five others, including the inspector, was admitted to be government hospital in Madurai.Senior police officials from Madurai and Virudhunagar, the district headquarters, haye rushed to the spot.	•■ Five shops, two houses and one i clinic were burnt by the mobs. The loss was estimated at Rs 3 lakhs.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Enough iron in India for two centuriesThe Times of India (1861-current); Apr 23, 1971; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 14ISP likely to merge with PSP“The Times of India” News ServiceTRIVANDRUM, April 22: The Indian Socialist Party, which is by and large a Kerala. Stale party, is likely to merge with the PSP very soon.The leaders of the two parties,. in a recent exchange of views in Kozhikode, agreed in principle that the two parties should re-unile.	.The PSP, with three members in the State Assembly, is a constituent of the ruling front with a nominee in the coalition Cabinet, Mr. N. K. Bala-krishnan, Minister for Agriculture and Health.The ISP too has three members, but is now functioning in the Opposition, and is a constituent of the Socialist Front.Kerala Congress not against joining Govt.TRIVANDRUM, April 22: Mr. K. M. George, Kerala Congress chairman, said today his party had no particular objection to joining the Achutha Menon Ministry since it had entered into an alliance with the U.F. and the Congress (R) during the mid-term poll.Mr. George, however, said this question had not come ur> before his party so far. When it did, a decision would be taken on merits.—P.T.I.Enough iron in India for two centuriesPANAJI, April 22: India has enough iron ore resources to take care of the internal demand as well as exports for more than two centuries, even at the rate of 125 million tonnes a year.This is revealed in a study on the “desirability of iron ore exports, conducted by the Federation of Indian Mineral Industries.”The study says that the country should vigorously pursue an iron-ore export programme.India, with 29,052 million tonnes of iron-ore resources ranks seventh among the countries rich in this mineral after the USSR, Canada, the U.S., Bolivia, Brazil and China.-—P.T.I.Curfew clamped on AhmedabadThe Times of India” News-ServiceAHMEDABAD, April 22: Curfew was imposed in most parts of the walled city of Ahmedabad at 10.30 p.m. following stone-throwing between two groups of people.The police and SRP units were patrolling the affected areas.Mr. Justice J. L. N'ain, at the Bombay High Court, granted an interim injunction restraining Nanji Morarji and Co. and its partners from using and infringing the trade marks of JJ. Industries.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Manipur calm as army steps inThe Times of India (J86J-current); May 8, 1993; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 10Manipur calm asarmy steps in1MPHAL, May 7 (UNI); The army has been fully deployed in Manipur to aid the police and paramilitary forces in restoring normalcy and peace in this violence-scarred state, according to the chief secretary, Mr H.V. Goswami.He said the army took position in the violence-prone areas yesterday.Earlier, the Union minister of state for home affairs, Mr Rajesh Pilot, had blamed the Manipur police for not taking timely action. He told reporters yesterday that the police reached lllong, 10 km from here, nearly four hours after violence erupted there.The army moved into Paobitek village, about 20 km from here, yesterday evening and along with the Manipur rifles repulsed a nearly one thousand strong armed mob.Curfew was relaxed from 0900 a.m. to 15.00 p.m. today.Banks, government offices, shops and markets opened this morning and people flocked to Imphal bazar.The police started handing over bodies to relatives of the deceased.The chief minister, Mr R.K. Dorendra Singh, reviewed the law and order situation this mroning with top officials of the army, and security forces, the chief secretary and the director general of police.The director general of police (Manipur), Mr A.V. Liddle would be replaced soon, according to highly-placed official sources here today, reports PTI. 'Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿3 killed in firing on Srinagar mobThe Times of India (J86J-current); Aug 27, 1988; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 13	killed in firing on Srinagar mobSRINAGAR, August 26 (UNI-PTI).THREE people were killed and more than 30 injured, some of them seriously, when the police opened fire and Used teargas at Saraf Racial and Naid Kadal in the downtown area today.' The police opened fire when a mob . leaving the nearby Jama Masjid after Friday prayers reportedly turned viol’ ent and stoned the police.' The Awami action committee chief, Mr Mirwaiz Moulvi Farooq, had also t addressed the gathering in the mosque, i	Earlier, the police burst teargas shells1 and fired in the air near the mosque to disperse the people.I The chief minister, Dr Farooq j Abdullah, today warned that his gov. emment would take the “most stringent measures” against “miscreants and their leaders” who had ’ indulged in and incited acts of violence : in the state during the last ten days.1	In his concluding address to the statei legislative council, Dr Abdullah said r these measures would include “large-i scale arrests.”“They (the culprits) would have to pay heavily for the mischief they have ‘ indulged in”, the chief minister told the council, which adjourned sine die 1 today.[ Responding to a point raised earlier ; by Maulvi Iftikhar Hussain Ansari ' (Cong), who played an influential role in getting, the Ashoora” procession ■ abandoned on Wednesday, the chief c minister said victims of the wandelism i would be compensated soon.a	•Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Bhiwandi simmers downFERNANDES, ALLWYN;Munshi, DebashishThe Times of India (1861-current); May 21, 1984; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 1By ALLWYN FERNANDES & DEBASHISH MTINSHIBHIWANDI, May 20.WHILE Bhiwandi simmered uneasily under the watchful eyes of the army and the police today, arson and violence continued, in Thane and trouble spread to the outskirts of Kalyan, 14 kny from here.Three persons were reported killed by a mob attacking a house in the Adalwadi area on Jail Road in Kalyan, and 30'houses were set ablaze in Tadipar, just across the creek from- Kalyan towards Bhiwandi. .	•In Thane, a special police squad quelled a riot at Rabodi with a lathi-charge and arrested 65 persons indulging in arson and .stone-throwing, A bakery was set on fire in MajiwadB and another arson case was reported from Azadnagar. .The police fired a round at the latter place, but no one was injured.Three bodies were discovered in Thane tbwn today, according to the special secretary (home), Mr. B. K. Chougule. Some huts at Indira Nagar were set on fire by arsonists. Riotous mobs also set fir’e to Khan building in Manorpjida and Daruwala building near the Civil Hospital.Records at various hospitals showed that 81 bodies had been received so far from Bhiwandi and adjoining areas. The break-up was as follows: Thane civil hospital 62 bodies, with two of them taken' away by relatives, eight bodies sent to J. J. Hospital in Bombay and 11 bodies in Bhiwandi hospital.The curfew was relaxed in Bhiwandi for two hours from noon to enablenenhle to' huv provisions, and theresimmers downwas a mad scramble for essential commodities. Crowds jostled in the narrow lanes to find their way to the nearest grocer. . .Stocks in • most government fair price shops were exhausted within an hour and shopkeepers exploited the shortage, selling i ice at Rs. 12 a kilo. Abut 10,000 litres of milk were distributed by government agencies.But for one minor incident of stabbing, the lifting of the curfew for two hours passed off peacefully. Official sources said that there was an attempt to set fire to some hutments at Vithal-nagar .and another attempt to set athree-wheeler on lire at Kharak.After the curfew was reimposed, Bhiwandi once again became a ghost town, with people watching cautiously from behind windows. as SRP and army patrols drove, slowly through the town.During the time the curfew was lifted,' we got a chance to talk to people. The tale -vyas familiar — politicians andlocal leaders were to blame for instigating violence and ruining the relationship between the two communities and the riots wereno sudden occurrence but had been planned for months. (“How else does one explain the large qumber of weapons and firearms seized?”) .Local politicians chose not to comment on the incidents, describing them as “unfortunate”. Leaders of all groups involved said that the contest over putting up flags was^a new development in the town.	. .... <. Bhiwandi has. had a long historyContinued on Page 9 Column 3A boy who lost his father and three cider brothers in the massacre at a farm near Bhiwandi on Saturday broke down when talking to our reporter. (Photograph by R. N. Vernekar)Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.ihiwandi smouldersContinued from Page 1 Column 8of tension between its two main groups. Each, round of violence only sows the seeds of another round, even though the prosperity brought to this powerloom town by the textile strike should have increased the stakes for maintaining the peace.The violence 'has caused an exodus of powerloom workers from the town, at least for the'moment. On the road from Bhiwaridi. to-;Kalyan can be seen a steady, stream of people, mostly from .the weaving , communities of south India, going back to their villages to wait till tempers subside. Most of them have lost their homes in the new hutment areas of the town.'Thousands of people are also languishing in relief camps. Manv of them are- in a desperate situation, having lost their near and dear ones, besides their meagre possessions. Many said they wanted to leave, never to return.The worst hit are the families of those massacred and burnt at' the farm on the outskirts of Bhiwandi, Their wives and children were still wailing at a government relief camp at Narpoli, 24 hours after the gruesome deaths were discovered.Among them was a 12-year-oldboy from,- Varanasi. He had lost his father and three older brothers. His mother was missing and he had no idea of where he could go now. He burst into tears when asked questions.Young women who had lq$t theii husbands were too stunned to talk. They stared into the distance, uncomprehending and emotionless.. The scene at other relief camps was only a little less grim. The prospects for most victims were grim—> .'beginning life again without a bread. winner and|or their homes and possessions., The state revenue . minister, Mr. • -.Shantardm Gholap, said 1,500 homeless people, had been accommodated at two camps. Another1 4,000 were camping in private compounds, he added. •In _ Kalyan, the nearest railway junction, there was a deceptive outward calm. Most people we - talked to, including police constables, said at first that there was no tension and there were no incidents in the town.But inquiries revealed that therehad been violence last night on theoutskirts of the town. We visited the ransacked house of one of the victims in Adalwadi where three persons, one of them said to be aged 90, and his wife had been killed, Two more persons were reported to be in hospital. The residents of the house complained of police inaction. The police were nowhere in sight when we visited the area.A few hundred metres away, at Tadipar, we visited 30 abandoned houses that had been set on fire. Most of the houses were beyond use. These houses and the one in Adalwadi had been attacked shortly after midnight last night by a mob of 300, local residents reluctantly said.A peace committee meeting was scheduled to be held in the town this evening in the presence of seniorReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿One killed in Meerut firingThe Times of India (1861-current); Jul 2, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1MEERUT, July 1 (PTI): One person was killed and three security forces personnel were injured when the police opened fire to quell a mob in the Valley Bazar area here today.The district magistrate, Mr R. S. Kaushik, told newsmen this evening that the police foiled some attempts of arson and looting.	,The mob indulged in stone-throwing and hurled a bomb ip which a PAC deputy superintendent of police and three constables including two PAC jawans, were injured.	. ’,- ’The police recovered an unidentified body bearing multiple stab wounds in the Iswafpiiri Mbhalla this afternoon.The authorities clamped curfew all over the trouble-tom city from 7 p.m. this evening to 4 a.m. tomorrow.Curfew was, however, relaxed in the Sadar Bazar areas for two hours from S p.m. to 7 p.m.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Riots spark row in J &amp; K houseThe Times of India (1861-current); Aug 18, 1988; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9'SRINAGAR, August 17 (UNI).Tu HE hoisting of Pakistani flags in downtown city in the past two days sparked off uproanous scenes in'the Jammu and Kashmirassembly today,Mr Mir Mustafa (Independent), alongwith the Muslim United Front (MUF) legislators, repeatedly interrupted the chief minister, Dr Farooq Abdullah, who intervened to say that some pro-Pakistani elements were responsible for hoisting the flags in the .-city on August 15.Mr Mustafa shouted at top of hisvoice ana neia me i^emrai government responsible for trouble. The speaker, Mirza Abdul Jashid, and the ruling party members took serious exception to this.Some other unparliamentary remarks uttered by Mr Mustafa were later expunged by the speaker, who warned Mr Mustafa that he would order his expulsion.Mr Mustafa late walked out of the house, shouting that he did not know why his remarks were being expunged.He, however, entered the house after the 20-minute-long pandemonium was over. Earlier, Dr Abdullah asked why black and Pakistani flags were being hoisted in the jurisdiction of leaders who called themselves Indians.He told the legislators that hoisting of the flags by a handful of antinational elements had defamed the people of Kashmir. The opposition raised an uproar over these remarks.The chief minister defended the national press when Syed Ali Shah Geelani (MUF) blamed it for creating a bad image outside the state.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Article 2 -- No TitleThe Times of India (J86J-current); Oct 5, 1961; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 7STUDENTS QUIT HOSTELAligarh DisturbancesContinued from Page 1 Column 4of the town which present a deserted lookShops are closed and business is at a standstill.Meanwhile, two persons are stated to have been stabbed at Kher Village, 12 miles from here.A few other cases of stray stabbing have been reported from other villages. However, Mr. R. K. Bharadwaj, Commissioner of Agra Division, who toured the affected areas, said that the situation was under control.Col. B. Ii. Zaidi, Vice-Chancellor of the University said in an interview that he had appointed a com-miuee to investigate the circumstances that led to the disturbances.He admitted that the elections to the Students’ Union this year were fought on communal lines.The Vice-Chancellor suggested that the constitution of the Students’ Union should be so amended as to provide for proportional representation.Col. Zaidi described the incidents, involving loss of life, as unfortunate. He added, however, that perfect harmony prevailed in the campus. He praised the district authorities for their timely action in giving protection to the students.There was still much excitement at the Ziauddin Hostel, the scene of Monday’s disturbances. Students belonging to one community left the hostel this morning. They said that unless the trouble-makers were arrested there could be no peace.GUPTA INFORMEDIn the meantime, five of the ten students admitted to the University Hospital were discharged today. Four others have been admitted to the civil hospital. The only student remaining in the University Hospital is stated to be out of danger.The Chief Minister, Mr. C. B. Gupta, now away at Madurai attending the A.I.C.C. session, has been apprised of the situationP.T.l. & I.N.S. add: One hundred and twenty five people, including a man with a stolen gun, have so far been arrested by the security authorities at Aligarh following yesterday’s incidents.According to details now available, there was one major incident yesterday when a crowd of about 8,000 including some students, came from the city side and made an attempt to cross the railway line and rush towards Aligarh University, but it was intercepted and dispersed by the police by the use of force.• Some incidents were reported from Chandausi, about 50 miles from here, in which students were involved. No details of the incidents, however. were available.A number of M.P.s arrived here on a fact-finding mission. They were Maulana Hifzur Rehman. Maulana Abdur Rehman and Mr. Ansar Har-vani. At the invitation of Col. B. H. Zaidi, Mr. K. D. Malaviya, Minister for Mines and Oil. reached here in the afternoon to discuss the situation arising out of yesterday’s rioting.Mr. Joshi, District Magistrate, said that the University authorities “were doing their best to restore good relationship and were co-operating with the local authorities in maintaining law and order inside the University campus.”Hapur: Shops were closed here today in sympathy with those killed and injured yesterday in the communal disturbances at Aligarh.A procession was taken out by students through the main streets of the town shouting slogans.—P T.l.SITUATION UNDER CONTROLLucknows The U.P. Government considers it unfortunate that the Aligarh University authorities should have failed to postpone elections to the Students’ Union even after it became clear that the contestants were canvassing openly on communal lines.A spokesman of the Home Department of the State Government today told “The Times of India” News Service that the results of the elections, announced on Sunday, worsened the situation which had become tense as a result of the pre-poll campaign.He said the situation at Aligarh was now under control. The Government was, however, worried over student strikes in some towns of Western U.P. following the Aligarh disturb, ances. .Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Hooch claims 8 Gujarat AdivasisThe Times of India (J86J-current); Mar 16, 1992; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 13Hooch claims 8 Gujarat AdivasisThe Times of India News ServiceAHMEDABAD, March 15: At least eight people, including two women, have died and ten have been affected after consuming methyl alcohol at Phulpari village of Limkheda taluka in Pan-chmahals last night.All the ten have been admitted to the Godhra civil hospital, where the condition of two is reported to be critical.The hooch tragedy came to light after the death of a 20-year-old Adivasi woman in hospital. The doctors of the hospital said that she had died because of the methyl alcohol consumed by her on Friday night.Communal riot in Assam townThe Times of India News ServiceGUWAHATI, March 15: The army today staged a flag-march in the riot-hit Hojai town in Assam’s Nagaon district where communal clashes had claimed one life and left at least 15 injured. Two platoons of the CRPF have also been rushed to the town.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Cops, rioters clash in Meerut, 2 killedThe Times of India (1861-current); Jul 19, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1Cops, rioters clashin Meerut, 2 killedMEERUT, July 18 (UNI & PT1): | ' Two people were lulled and seven,1 including five policemen, injured in an 1 exchange of fire between the police and ' rioters who indulged in arson and : violence in a fresh outbreak of trouble in this riot-tom city today.1	The senior superintendent of police,1 Mr Gridhari Lai Sharma, told news; men this evening that security forces 1 had arrested 30 people in this connection.'	The senior superintendent of police,: Mr G. L. Sharma, told reporters that 1 the trouble started when some persons>	tried to defy curfew restrictions in the 1 morning, when the police tried to'*	prevent them, a mob gathered and ; threw stones. Some shots were fired*	from house tops also.; The scheduled curfew relaxation in 1 the four police circles of Lisari Gate,*	Delhi Gate, Kotwali and Brahampuri>	from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. was cancelled today.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿LATHI-CHARGE ON 300-STRONG MOB: POLICE PARTY ATTACKEDThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Nov 16, 1953; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1LATHI-CHARGE ON 300-STRONG MOB Police Party AttackedThe Times of India News Service ALLAHABAD, November 15:Several persons were injured when police made a lathi-charge on a 300-strong, mob which attacked a police party at Lalganj yesterday.The police party, headed by a Magistrate, .was visiting Lalganj to inquire into a police firing! here a few days ago.The crowd, obviously incensed by this incident, attacked the police party with stones and brickbats.Twelve persons were arrested in this connection.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Clashes erupt in BhagalpurThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Aug 13, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 17V Than of India New* ServiceBHAGALPUR, August 12.ORE than six government.vehicles were damaged and ‘	‘ f peoplean unknown number ol injured in communal violence today in the local Parvatti Muhalla of thetown.An irate mob belonging to One community looted two shops belonging to people of another community. .. At a hastily-arranged press meet, the, district magistrate, Mr Arun Jha, stud that so fiur noarrests had been made and utmost precaution was being taken to prevent any deterioration in the situation. “The situation is very volatile,” he added.Unconfirmed reports said that the police fired four rounds to disperse the irate mob, while rioters themselves had fired one round and used sharp weapons against each other.Prohibitory orders under section 144 Cr PC have been imposed on die entire town. According to the district magistrate, the town has been divided into five zones each under a magistrate. Besides, day-long patrolling Of the .town has also been ordered.. The incident occurred around 9 a.m. when a religious procession was stoned by unidentified people from roof tops in the Parvatti Muhalla. Observers alleged that thecessionists were also fired at from the roof tops near the Bishaharithan in the area.The administration had been informed about the tension in the area on Thursday afternoon. The organisers of a religious ceremony at Bishaharithan had shouted slogans against the district police and civil administration officials when they had gone to the spot to clear encroachments on the road.New Delhi (PH): Delhi police pickets on Saturday kept a strict vigilin the sensitive walled city areas here as a preventive measure, following Friday's dashes in MeerutOne person had been stabbed to death in the clashes ip MeerutMeanwhile, the Janata Dal leader^ Mr V. P. Singh, appealed to the people to remain calm and not be provoked by the “latest bout of inspired violence” in Meerut(Meerut Tense, Page 8)pro-Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Gulf council to discuss conflictThe Times of India (J86J-current); May 14, 1982; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Gulf council to discuss conflictKUWAIT, May 13 (AP): The six-nation Gulf Co-operation Council (GGC) was scheduled to convene a conference at foreign ministers level here on Saturday to examine current mediation efforts: to bring the 19-month Iraq-Iran war to an end, the Kuwaiti; foreign minister, was quoted today, as declaring.	/Sheik Sabah Al-Ahmed told Kuwaiti newspaper publishers that the coni'e-rence will be held at the behest of Kuwait ruler, Sheikh Jaber Al-Ahmed Al-Sabah, who communicated the idea to I^qi President;' / Saddam *' Htiss^mt in a telephone contact earlier in the •Week. ■ ' ■	'/ The GCC groups Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Qatar and Oman in an economic integration and collective security pact. Iraq is not a member of the GCC.	'Man chops off hand, offers it to templeNEW DELHI, May 13 (UNI): A lower division clerk in Delhi administration today chopped off his left hand and offered it at a temple in Central Delhi.	•Kanwaljeet Singh, who used an axe to amputate his left hand at Shakti Temple, was rushed to Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital by Radhey Shyam, the pujari’s nephew.Police have registered a case of attempted suicide against Kanwaljeet. ;Baroda mob gassedBARODA, May 13 (UNI); Police burst six teargas shells to queli a clash between two communities in Baroda’s Machipet area this.afternoon.Two persons were injured :n the stone-throwing which began when some > youths picked up a quarrel with ! a truck driver and slapped him, police said.This had led to confrontation between two mobs, among which were some , people armed with dharias, sticks and other weapons, the police added.Rajya Sabha proroguedNEW DELHI,	May 13 (PTI):The Rajya Sabha which adjourned sine die on May 6 wasi prorogued by the President yesterday, according to a Rajya	Sabha secretariatrelease.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿4 killed in MP town violenceThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 11, 1984; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1INDORE,' September 10.THREE-DAY curfew was clamped ; this morning on Sendhwa town, about 150 km from' here, on the Bombay-Agra road following an explosion in a G ana-path! immersion procession and subsequent incidents which to-gcther resulted in the death of four persons ana injuries to over 3U, report PTI and UNI.	,Official reports received here said a child died and three others were injured in the explosionwhich occurred around 2.30 a.m. today. Complaining that some miscreants had thrown missiles on the procession, a crowd gheraoed top civil and police officials. . i :The crowd turned violent: and indulged in stone-throwing and arson, leading to police firing. Three persons died and nine others were injured in the firing, the reports said.	, '/.]]:;■One report said police fired as lathicharge and teargas failed to control an irate mob, which tried to . set. fire, to a house and: damaged' a fire tender. The report said-.the injured included 23 policemen.The situation in the town was “tense but under control’’ Additional force had been deployed in the town. Twenty persons have so far been arrested.Meanwhile, a magisterial inquiry has been ordered into the incident.The chief minister, Mr Arjun Singh, has announced ex-gratia pay. ment^ of Rs.. 5,000 each to the families of those killed , and Rs. 1,000 each to the injured.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Police fire on Palanpur riotersThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 18, 1972; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1AHMEDABAD. October 17. rrtHE police opened lire to quell A a violent crowd in Palanpur town, the district headquarters of Banaskantha, this evening, according to the collector of Palanpur, Ms; P- Basu. ’Mr. Basil said a 12-hour curTew had been imposed in the town in view of violence and arson following a * clash between two communities.At least 20 people had been removed to hospital for treatment of injuries sustained in the firing and stone throwing. Seven shops and huts were set on fire by violent crowds, he added.Mr. Basu said so far no death had been reported:Of the 20 persons admitted to hospital, four had bullet injuries and the condition is reported to be “critical.”The police fired four rounds as the crowd became unmanageable even after a lathi-charge and bursting of tear gas shells. About 200 people including 20 “notorious elements” were taken into custody, he said.SITUATION UNDER CONTROL . Mr. Basu said the situation was now under complete control. Armed police were posted at every nook aud corner of the town.The entire trouble area had been cordoned off and two contingents of the State Reserve Police personnel had arrived from Ahmedabad. ■According to the collector, the trouble started when a Dussera procession, passing through a minority locality, was subjected to heavy stonethrowing and brick-batting resultingin injury to several participants in the procession.	‘Mr. Basu said he had promulgated orders banning processions, carrying of lethal weapons and the assembly of more than four persons lor a period of 15 days. Though the curfew was imposed for 12 hours ending 6 a.m. tomorrow, it might continue for some more time, he added.The chief minister. Mr. Ghanshyam Oza instructed Mr. Basu to deal with the miscreants firmly.—U.N.l.P.T.I. adds: Mr. Oza told pressmen in Ahmedabad late on Tuesday night that the situation in Palanpur was peaceful and completely under control. There was no cause for panic, he said.	.Mr. Oza said he was in touch with the authorities in Palanpur and severe action would be taken against mischief-mongers.	___________________Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿7 killed in Baroda on MoharramThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jul 24, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 17 killed in■	. j •Baroda on MoharramThe Timet of India Newt ServiceBARODA, July 23; Seven persons were killed in police firing and stabbing and an indefinite curfew clamped on The entire walled city areas of Baroda in yet another bout of communal disturbances over the stoning of Tazia processions on the occasion of Moharram this evening.There is still no count of the number of rounds, fired by the police or the teargas shells bunt as violence that erupted in the Man-dvi area soon spread to other areas engulfing the entire walled city.The police opened fire at Babamanpura, Mandvi, Fatehpura Dumdherwad and several other lanes and by-lanes in the walled city area that witnessed a free-for-all for some time despite the strong, police bandobust in view of moharram today. The stoning soon led to a stabbing spree with at least seven stabbing cases reported in the first couple of hours, including two fatal ones.While five persons were killed in police firing, two succumbed to stab injuries. Among the injured, ten persons sustained bullet injuries and five others injured in stabbing. There is still no report of any injury due to stoning.As the situation tended to go out of control, the police imposed an 1 indefinite Curfew at 3.45 P.M. in the entire area under the Vadi, city and Panigate police stations. The police claimed the situation was brought under control after the imposition of curfew. ',Life outside the curfew-bound (Continued on Page 13)Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.7 killed in Baroda on Moharram(Continued from Page 1)areas, however, was normal with people going out for shopping or to see a cinema and making social calls. The shops bordering the curfew-bound areas also remained open and normal business continued.THREE KILLED: Barring stray incidents of violence leading to three deaths, Moharram was observed with traditional solemnity all over Bihar, reports PT1 from Patna.One person was killed in police firing at village Chandanpatti in Hayaghat block of Darbhanga district today. The incident occurred when Tazia processionists from two villages clashed among themselves and later with the police and tried to snatch rifles following which the police opened fire killing one person on the spot.Two persons were killed ai Banaul village in Sitamarhi district yesterday in clashes between two communities. The situation in the village was reported to be tense bui under control.ARMY OUT IN PAKISTAN(UNI from New Delhi): The army has been called out to maintain law and order in a number of places in Pakistan’s Punjab and Sind following violent clashes between Shias and Sunnis on the cvc of Moharram according to Pakistani media reports.The Shia-Sunni tension which had been building up in Punjab, Sind and the Gilgit and Baltistan areas - of Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) since April last, triggered off Violent dashes between the members of the two communities at Jhang in Punjab on the evening of July 19 last.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿7 die in Kanpur clashesThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Apr 21, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1The Times of India News ServiceKANPUR, April 20.THE army staged a flag march in the curfew-bound areas of Kanpur today following renewed violence ana arson from last night resulting in the death of seven persons.	1The decision to call in the army was taken bv the authorities early this morning after an exchange of fire between the Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) and rioteers who had taken position on roof-tops and resistance to police searches for arms and ammunition.The inspector-rgeneral of police, Mr B.S. Bedi, said the police would continue search operations with help from the army. Large quantities of arms and explosives nave been seized by security forces, but none of these were-foreign made, he added.Namaz-e-Alwida was observed by members of the Muslim community in various mosques of the city in an atmosphere of tension. People from the curfew-bound localities, however, were not allowed to move out. Theyoffered prayers at their homes.Immediately [after moving in, army units staged a flag march in the areas of Seesamau, Chamanganj, Ba-jaria and Colonelganj police circles arid then marched through sensitjve areas in the rest jof the city. Barring some localities where shops remained closed, life in the test of the curfew-free city was normal.	.Last night’s [renewed violence caught the local police on the wrong j foot as the disturbed area had shown , signs of returning to normalcy during 24 hours following the violence and arson on Wednesday. Some people fired several rounds at PAC men patrolling and narrow lanes and also hurled bombs at [them.Two persons were reported killed in police firing last night itself. Three more bodies were found by the army during this morning’s flag march.The inspector-general of police said the pattern of violence suggested pre-planning and a definite strategy, He said the government had been advised to maintain special vigilance in sensitive areas in districts like Meerut, Aligarh and Moradabad where similar j tactics could be adopted by anti-social elements.UNI adds: Th< range), Mr J.S. Gh the situation was control.”	.Four companies fourteen of the PAC out to assist the local All senior distqc authorities were areas under indefnii'DIG (Kanpur ingesh, said that ’fluid but underof the CRPF and have been called administration, t and /police patrolling in the ite curfew.In some localities from roof-tops on parties by the wa: miscreants also thrfe' iles, setting some h< ipeople were admitted injuries and doctp them said their “stable.”The authorities h to relax curfew tod4 ful march of the Yatra’ through Kani later reviewed theii of the tense situati night’s violence.Special security been ma'de in the c; Namaz’.Meanwhile, arr& makers are continuali, shots were fired the patrolling groups. The :w flaming missuses on fire. Two to hospital wijh attending on condition, wasrnngrsipd earlier decided y after the peace-‘Dharam Jagran pur yesterday, but decision in view on following lastatangements have i :y for the ‘Alwidasts of trouble-ng.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew lifted in MalegaonThe Times of India (J86J-current); Nov 22, 1982; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9Curfew liftedin MalesraonOBy A Staff ReporterBOMBAY, November 21:	Thepolice lifted the curfew clamped ■> i riot-torn Malegaon, Nasik, at 7.if! p.m. today, according to the state police control room here.Nineteen people, including Iwo policemen, injured in the riots arc recovering in a local hospital.The police had lobbed (eargas shells and imposed curlew in the town iol-lowing the violent turn of an agitation by a group of Muslims protesting against certain “objectionable’' refe;-rences in an eighth standard history text book yesterday.A number of senior officials, including DIG B. G. Akashi, and the collector, Mr. Govind Swarauo. are camping in the town and v.-ill he staying there till total normalcy ^ restored.A top official of the home department told this paper tonight that the agitators were protesting on a nonissue. The ‘hizra’ of Prophet Mohammed from Madina to Mecca was roughly translated in Marathi as his fleeing.The government has made necessary changes in the book when objections were raised to the usage more than a month ago. Nevertheless, vested interests were provoking the people and were demanding the total scrapping of the book, he added.He alleged that the agitation was politically motivated and said the government had decided to deal sternly with those bent upon disturbing com vunul harmony in the state.Reports of envoy’s resignation deniedCAIRO, November 21 (AP) : A foreign ministry official today deniec Middle East radio reports that Egypt’: ambassador to Israel had resigned, bu the official noted that Mr. Saad Mur tada is eligible for retirement nex .February.Mr. Murtada, 59, was recalled fron his post last September to protes against the Israeli occupation of Leba non and the massacre of Palestinian: in Beirut refugee camps two dayi earlier.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew imposed on town in 24-ParganasThe Times of India (J86J-current); Mar 20, 1969; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Curfew imposed on town in 24-Parganas‘‘The Times of India** News ServiceCALCUTTA, March 19.SEVEN-HOUR curfew was im-posed on Jagadal, in 24-Parganas district, tonight, following a clash between two groups of workers in which one person was Killed and 113 were injured.An order UQdci ,Seo. 144, Cr. P.C. has also been promulgated.U is reported that supporters of two rival unions clashed within a jute mill which had opened today after a period of closure.	'Although the dispute over the terms of the settlement was confined to the mill, considerable tension was generated in Jagadal - which is a mixed industrial locality.Sixteen people have been arrested.One person was killed when the police fired three rounds to disperse rioters at Jadavpore, a southern suburb of Calcutta, last night* It is reported that the trouble started when two groups of anti-social elements attacked each other with bombs and crackers. When a police party reached the spot the miscreants put off the street lights and threw bombs at the police van. Four policemen, including an assistant sub-inspector, were injured by flying splinters. Finding itself completely surrounded the police party fired.Patil nominated for Banaskantha‘The Times of India*' News ServiceNEW DELHI, March 19: The Congress Central Parliamentary Board today nominated Mr. S. K.' Patil, former Union Railway Minister, for the forthcoming by-election to the Lok Sabha from Banaskantha, Gujarat.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Civilians killed in bombing, says HanoiThe Times of India (1861-current); Jun 18, 1972; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew in Aligarh, 1 killedThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 11, 1988; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1LUCKNOW, October 10 (UNI): Ini' definite curfew was imposed in fiveS‘ice station areas of Aligarh today owing fresh stabbing incidents resulting in the death of one person.The state home secretary, Mr Sant Kumar Tripathi, said curfew was im, posed in Aligarh at 1:15 p.m. today in the police station areas of Kotwali, Delhi Gate, Gandhi park and Punna Devi following five incidents of stabbing.New Delhi: (UNI): The Ramjanam ■ Mukti Sangharsh Samiti today threat' ened to undertake a march to the historic Jama Masiid here on October 14 if Muslim leaders did not call off their proposed march from Faizabad to Ayodhya.Mr B. L. Sharma, general secretary ' of the Samiti, said the Bajrang Dal > volunteers have decided to march to i the mosque and recite “Hanuman , Chalisa”.Meanwhile, the Centre is expected hold a second round of talks with the Samiti leaders,.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Probe ordered into firing at AurangabadThe Times of India (1861-current); May 26, 1988; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1Probe ordered into firing\ at AurangabadAURANGABAD, May 25(PTI).THE Aurangabad district collector, Mr Rajiv Sinha, today ordered a magisterial inquiry into the police firings at Aurangabad and Bidkin on May 18 and May 20, respectively.Three persons died in the Aurangabad firing, while the Bidkin firing claimed one life. The two places and nearby Paithan were rocked by large-scale violence which claimed 2i lives, The sub-divisional magistrate, Mr Sanjay Ubale, will conduct the inquiry.Meanwhile, the situation in all the three places was stated to be peaceful with no untoward incidents reported in the past four days. The indefinite curfew imposed here and in Paithan would be relaxed for 12 hours from 6 a.m. tomorrow. Mr Sinha said.According to UNI the city police arrested 42 persons during the last 24 hours.Stormy start, Page 3Pak troops rushed to riot-hit GilgitLONDON, May 25 (PTI); Pakistan has rushed troops to quell rioting in the Gilgit area following a dispute between Shia and Sunni tribesmen killed many in nine days of rioting between the two sects near the Karakoram highway after Shia tribesmen celebrated the end of Ramadan fast on May 17—one day ahead of their Sunni fellowmen.Troops were called in from the Rawalpindi garrison, near Islaat, because of its nearness to China and Kashmir, the reports sais. .Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Middle class involved in riots: News AnalysisZaidi, Askari HThe Times of India (1861-current); May 29, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9Middle class involved in riotsBv ASKARI H. ZAIDIMEERUT:THIS historic city had never witnessed violence of this magnitude. Besides the official death roll of more than 100, over 600 houses and commercial establishments have been destroyed in the riots. The judicial inquiry ordered into the Mallyana “carnage” will establish the chronology of the events and the circumstances leading to, among other things, the recovery of the dead bodies from the Hindon and Ganga canal.But the larger question is, can theMeerut riots be explained away merelyas a “total failure of administrative machinery? Doing so would amount to skirting the' basic issues. Because, besides local factors like business rivalry in the handloom trade and lapses of the administration, there are many other issues which emerge from the Meerut experience which are pointers to an extremely grim future scenario.A major part of Uttar Pradesh has witnessed tremendous communalisa-tion ever since the issue of the Babri Masjid-Ram Janambhoomi surfaced. Both the minority and the majority communities have used the issue to whip up passions. The recent rally in Delhi was indicative of the growing aggressiveness of the minorities.The Babir masjid Action Committeeand the Vishwa Hindu Parishad have not lost a single opportunity to stoke the fire. Attempts were made during, the Meerut riots to use mosques in the same way as Gurudwaras are used in Punjab to spread political messages. Most ominously, following the unlocking of the disputed shrine by the order of a judicial magistrate, the propaganda of the leaders of the minority community that the judiciary too had lost all credibility has found increasing adherents.With both communities emotionally charged, the present month of Ramazan has been the most tense inrevealed that most victims had suffered gun-shot injuries. Such brutality is a recent trend.recent history. Thus, when violence erupted in Meerut and later spilled over to other parts of western UP and Delhi, observers were not exactly surprised because tension had been prevailing in this pan of the country for quite some time.The significance of the Meerut riots lies in the changing nature of the communal violence in the country. As was witnessed during the November, 1984 riots in Delhi and elsewhere, several persons werq, burnt alive in Meerut. Houses were set on fire with mobs waiting outside to shoot down those who tried to run out of the house. Inquiries at the hospitals in MeerutAnother new and ominous development was the active involvement of middle class youth in acts of violence and arson. In fact, the riots would not have spread to middle class localities like Shastri Nagar had the educated middle class not participated in actual violence. This reporter, is witness to many such incidents in State Bank colony, Chhipi Tank and Shastri Nagar. Houses of a particular community were selected tn these locality for attacks. The famous Urdu poet, Mr Bashir Badr, is one such victim whose house ip Shastri Nagar was burnt to ashes. Fortunately, he was away in Delhi, and his family members were given shelter in the house of a Hindu neighbour.These riots were different also in that they spilled over to the adjoining rural areas. Except for the Maliyana incident, in which the PACT apparently went berserk and killed many, all other incidents reported from the villages like Abdulpur, Jataoli and Kaseru Khera were of a minor nature. Yet they were the grim reminders of the partition riots which had affected the rural areas as much as they did the cities. (Concluded)The first part of this analysis on the Meerut riots was published on Tuesday, May.26.	,Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Godhra Municipal CouncillorsThe Times of India (1861-current); Mar 15, 1955; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9Godhra Municipal CouncillorsCHARGES BEING INVESTIGATED• -.—	—~ ^| QilflfE	■“The Times of India” News ServiceGODHRA, March 14:	Twocouncillors of Godhra Municipality are said to have participated in a vote on matters in which they were professionally interested.A citizen has moved the Collector of Panch Mahals, under Section 28 of the Bombay Municipal Boroughs Act, demanding that the councillors be disqualified.The Collector is also investigating another complaint made by a woman councillor. She has alleged that one other councillor owed the municipality arrears of municipal taxes.She bas asked the Collector to direct the municipality to take steps necessary for recovering the arrears.HOLI INCIDENTS IN MEHSANA Policemen Assaulted“The Times of India” News ServiceVISNAGAR, March 14: Three incidents caused a breach of the peace in Mehsana district during Holi festivities last week.The police fired five shots in the air to quieten two groups of warring villagers at Norta, in Patan taluka. Several people and a policeman were injured in the scuffle.Villagers of Vasai Dabhala, in Vijapur taluka, attacked two policemen posted there to maintain law and order during Holi. Both of them were injured seriously. One person has been arrested.‘ Cne villager of Bilodra, in 1 the same taluka, was suspected • of being an informer. It, was [ stated that angered people cut ’ off his nose and burned it.“Save Cow” Campaign“The Times of India” News ServiceAHMEDABAD, March 13: More than 290 persons have courted arrest in connection with the anti-cow slaughter campaign being conducted here during the last 29 days.A fresh batch of satyagrahis arrived here today from villages nearby and will offer sat-yagnha in front of the Slaughter House.The satyagraha is being organized by the Akhil Gujarat Govadh Virodhi Dhannydh Sa-miti,Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿20 injured in Srinagar riotsThe Times of India (J86J-current); Aug 18, 1988; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 920 injured in Srinagar riotsSRINAGAR, August 17 (PTI): A least 20 persons, including1 somi -policemen, received injuries in clashe between pro-Pakistan demonstrator ‘and the police in parts of downtowi -city for the third successive day hen today.- The clashes occurred at Rajorikada and Bohrikadal, and spread t<Fatehkadal, Khanyar Chowk, Khayan Chowk and Maisuma localities, witl -the police lobbing tear-gas shells ant making lathi-charge, and the demon strators retaliating by throwing stones ^ Several passing vehicles were dam aged by the mob, bringing the traffic ti 'H halt.r‘ Fifteen miscreants had been arrestei on charges of rioting and assault oi 'public servants, the police said.\ Meanwhile, Mirwaiz Maulv farooq, chairman of the Awami actioi committee, who has been charged b; the government with inciting violeno jib the downtown localities, claimet that one Mushtaq Ahmad, who hat received bullet injuries in the polio firing yesterday, had succumbed to hi injuries last night.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿16 die as riots rock HyderabadThe Times of India (1861-current); Dec 8, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1NAXALS KILL 3 POLICEMENHYDERABAD,Dec. 7 (PTI).FIFTEEN people were killed and 45 others injured in a series of stabbing incidents in various parts of the city while one person died in police firing, even as an indefinite curfew was clamped on the entire old city here today.Group clashes erupted in the Sabzimandi area of the city in the morning. Incidents of arson, looting and stabbing spread like wildfire, while stabbing incidents were reported from the Kulsum-pura, Chatrinaka, Bhavani Nagar, Chandrayanagutta and Tappachabutra areas.The orgy of violence continued even after imposition of curfew and tension prevailed in several areas of the city.Meanwhile, police patrolling has been intensified in the old city areas.Earlier, the police opened fire to disperse an unruly mob indulging in arson and looting at Panch Bavi Aiwa in the Kulsumpura area of the old city.TOINS adds:The Naxalite-domi-nated Telengana districts of Andhra Pradesh were rocked by tension today with the murder of three policemen in Adilabad district and the killing of a forest guard in War-angal district.The three policemen were killed and another policeman was injured when some activists of the Sikasa Singareni Karmika Samakhya, the trade union wing of Naxalites in the coal belt, fired indiscriminately at the policemen on duty at the guard-room of a coal mine in the Bellampalli area. The extremists reportedly made away with some arms and explosives used in mines after the attack which took place around 4-30 a.m.A bandh called by the Naxalites passed off peacefully in Warangal, headquarters of a district rocked by violence in the wake of the arrest of a radical leader in recent days. K. Chandramouli, the secretary of Radical Youth League, whose arrest provoked a demonstration at the Narmetta police station and led to firings and deaths on December 5, was released on bail today.The Naxalites had kidnapped 26 people on December 4, 5 and 6 to press for the release of Chandramouli and only ten people have been freed. One forest guard has been killed. Theauthorities are hoping that the IS remaining kidnap victims would be freed soon.The Naxalite spokesman have demanded a judicial inquiry by a high court judge into the incidents at Narmetta and the immediate suspension of a DSP named Sunderkumar Das and a circle inspector, Liaqat Ali. The chief minister, Dr M. Chenna Reddy, had said yesterday that a magisterial inquiry would be conducted.The convener of the AP civil liberties council, Mr K. O. Kan-nabiran, has appealed to the extremists to release hostages. He also condemned the police firing at Narmetta and called for a judicial inquiry. The government has been claiming that three persons were' killed and seven others were injured in police firing while the Naxalites have said that 12 people were killed.. Opposition leaders also have called for a judicial inquiry.Meanwhile, a Naxalite who was associated with the sensational abduction of IAS officers at Gurtedu village in East Godavari district in December 1987, T. Rajeshwara Rao, surrendered to the police in Kakinda today along with his wife, Jayakka, also a Naxalite. He was involved in several killings since 1984.New Delhi (PTI): Mr Subodh Kant Sahay, minister of state for home affairs, has deferred his visit to Madras but is visiting Hyderabad and Assam.According to an official spokesman here, Mr Sahay will visit Guwahati for the proposed meeting of chief ministers of the north-eastern states convened by the Assam governor, Dr D.D. Thakur, on Monday.During his overnight visit to Hyderabad today, Mr Sahay will hold discussions with the Andhra Pradesh chief minister, mr M. Chenna Reddy,, on the Naxal problem.UNI says that indefinite curfew was clamped in parts of Aligarh following group clashes in which two people were killed this afternoon, according to official reports.Curfew was clamped in areas under the Siani Gate, Delhi Gate and Kotwali police stations after the clashes started.An official spokesman said the trouble started when someone snatched the rifle of a PAC constable and stabbed him.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿13	held in BijapurThe Times of India (1861-current); Apr 29, 1982; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 413 held inBijapurBy Oar CorrespondentBIJAPUR, April 28: Thirteen communal elements here were arrested today in a pre-dawn swoop and later remanded to a week’s magisterial custody. ‘According to the superintendent of police, Mr. K. Narayan, the entire police force of Bijapur and a contingent of the Border Security Force, which arrived earlier, paraded in the main •treets of the town last night following disturbances on Monday night. No untoward incident barring a case of attempted arson has since been reported.Indian seamen in U. K.Institute of scienceanniversaryBOMBAY, April 28: The valedictory function of the diamond jubilee year of the Institute of Science here will be held at the institute premises tomorrow.The history Of science teaching and research in western India has been closely linked with this institute, which was once called the Royal Institute of Science.The institute was delinked from other science colleges and was placed under the direct control of the secretary to the education department/ government of Maharashtra, in 1953. More than 2,250 research papers have been published from the institute and over 1,000 students have obtained their M.Sc. and Ph.D. degrees.ship to FalklandsBy A Staff ReporterBOMBAY, April 28: About 300 Indian seamen have been recruited my a British shipping > company . to work on board a rescue ship on its way to the aFlklands where the British and Argentinian forces are likely to engage in action.Disclosing this information, the Calcutta-based Indian Federation of Trade Unions today described this as “total involvement of Indian workers . in British imperialism.”Mr. K. Ramachandran, secretary to the national committee of the federation, in a statement released here today urged the West - Bengal government not to allow any Indian seaman to “sign on” from the Calcutta port.	--LReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Three killed in Bijapur firingThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jul 28, 1984; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9Three killed inThe Times of India News ServiceBIJAPUR, July 27:	Three per-sons were killed instantly and four others injured when the police opened fire to\dispose a mob at-Hun-gunt^ town in Iilakal taluka of Bijapur district yesterday evening.The mob is reported to have set on fire two jeeps, a S.T. bus and three cycles. Fifteen policemen and seven revenue officials, including the taluka magistrate, were injured in the stonethrowing. Four of the injured have been admitted to a hospital,* For the past two months the residents of Hungund have been agitating for a bus depot in the town. The trouble started when two groups, one said to be for an M.L.A. and the other against him, clashed and a section attacked an advocate.Section 144 CRPC has been clamped bn the town for seven days. The divisional commissioner, the deputy inspector-general of - police and the superintendent of police have rushed to the town,; Mr. K. V. R, Tagore, superintendent of police-, told this paper today that the situation was now under control. The loss to property is estimated at Rs/5 lakhs.Bangalore <PTI): The Karnataka chief minister, Mr. ’ Ramakrishna Hegdc, ordered a judicial enquiry into Thursday night’s violent incidents at Hungund leading to police firing.Announcing this an official spokesman said the chief minister had also asked the minister of state for home, Mr. J. Ramesh Chandrappa, to immediately proceed to Hungund to make an on the spot study of the situation.	VReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿POLICE PLATOONS STATIONED: ORISSA INDUSTRIAL TOWNSThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Mar 20, 1964; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1POLICE PLATOONS STATIONED Drissa Industrial Towns“The Tiir.es of India” News Service |CUTTACK* March 19: Platoons of ! the Orissa Military Police have taken j up positions in the four industrial towns j of Rourkela. Jharsuguda, Rajgangpur ^ tnd Brajarajnagar where communal feelings have been running high since ( I'esterday.	.A prohibitory order under Section 144. Cr. P. C.t has been enforced n these places. The situation has >een brought under control).One person died of knife injuries md six others were injured in inci-lents in Rourkela yesterday, it was )fficially stated here. The steel plant vas not affected. .Two cases of arson were reported n Jharsuguda in which a liquor .hop and a cinema house were involved. Some persons were injured n Brajarajnagar while at Rajgang-mr, too, three incidents occurred.The police have started rounding jp mischievous elements and so far ibout .30 persons have been taken nto custody.Baseless rumours that attempts had teen made to sabotage the refugee ■pedal going to the Manna transit ;amp and that there was also an at-empt at poisoning the food of refuses. it was stated, had led to the ncidents in these towns along the oute of the train.Sambalpur: Communal unrest is preading in Sambalpur District.Bight persons were injured at Rour-cela railway station last night when utacked by a mob when the Nagpur-' jound night passenger arrived there.3ne of. them suepmbed to the inju-ies on the tvay to hospital.Tension prevails in Jharsuguda also vhere one person was reported :o rave, been stabbed.Precautionary measures have been aken in Sambalpur also. .Jamshedpur Clash, Page 7Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Police Fire On Rioters, 2 DieThe Times of India (J86J-current); Aug 18, 1957; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Police Fire On ^ Rioters, 2 DieBELLARY, August 17:	Twopersons were killed and two others received gunshot wounds when police opened fire on a riotous crowd yesterday at Hos-p.et, about 45 miles from here, according to an official report.The report said that while a centenary celebrations procession with the national flag and Mahatma Gandhi’s portrait wa5 passing by a mosque, stones and soda bottles were thrown at the processionists. Sixteen persons, including an Assistant Commissioner and some policemen, were injured. The report said that some of the processionists, while returning, retaliated and in the resulting confusion some shops . were looted. Finding the situation uncontrollable, the police, after giving due warning, fired ten rounds in which two persons were killed and two others injured.— P.T.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Varanasi firing injures 6The Times of India (J86J-current); Aug 14, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Orissa riots spread to rural areasThe Times of India (1861-current); Mar 30, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 13BHUBANESWAR, March 29 (PTI).INCIDENTS of arson were reported today in Soro town in Balasorc district in the grip of communal violence fast spreading to rural areas as the situation in riot-torn Bhadrak was said to be under control.A correspondent who reached the town saw flames leaping out from different parts of the small town, a block headquarter in the district.The situation worsened after the central forces deployed there yesterday were withdrawn to lighten security in Bhadrak town under curfew for the sixth day today.Meanwhile the number of people injured in firing by the CRPF in Soro yesterday has risen to 25. Four persons were injured in clashes.The firing followed a bomb attack by miscreants injuring one jawan and incidents of arson.The correspondent saw parts of several villages around Soro were in flames and the people belonging to a particular community fleeing their houses in panic.The slate police force deployed in the town appeared hopelessly inadequate and at many places the miscreants far outnumbered the police force.The sources said the death toll in communal violence in and around Bhadrak was 11, with the succumbing of two persons to their injuries at the SCB medical college hospital in Cuttack.A large number of motor vehicles, including cars, jeeps, trekkers, three wheelers were torched by the mis-creants at Soro yesterday.TOINS adds: The Orissa chief minister, Mr Biju Patnaik, today said the communal riots in Bhadrak were preplanned. After returning from the riot-hit town, he told reporters that anti-social elements had a field day as the administration did not have enough police personnel on the day the riots broke out.Mr Patnaik announced that the families of those killed would be given Rs 25,000 each. He gave cheques to the widows of two riot victims.Mr Patnaik said he was awaiting the report of the revenue divisional commissioner who is probing the riots. If necessary, he would appoint a judicial commission and request the chief justice of Orissa high court to spare a sitting judge.The chief minister said the toll in the riots was nine and not II as reported by the media. Forty-six people were injured and two had been arrested.Mr Patnaik visited Bhadrak along with the parliamentary affairs minister, Mr Bijoy Kumar Mahapatra. The state Janata Dal president, Mr Ashok Kumar Das, also visited Soro and Bhadrak.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿3 more killed in KarnatakaThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 12, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of Indiapg. 13BANGALORE, Oct. 11(UNI & PTI).THREE more persons were killed taking the toll in communal clashes in Karnataka to 48 in the last 24 hours.The police said here today that two people were. stabbed to death in Aragal in Hassan district and a boy was killed in a scuffle in Tumkur.In Kodagu district, the police opened fire to quell violence after ten ■ houses were set ablaze at Tannirhalla. In Bettageri, three people were injured after two communities used firearms.; Channapatna and Davanagere, the worst affected towns, were peaceful.■ In Gujarat, violence which rocked • Lunawada town of Panchmahal district recently, spread to nearby vil-- lages of Lunawada and Santrampur 1 talukas of the district during the last 48 hours. The police resorted to lathi-charge and fired one round to disperse a ’ crowd of 200 people at Muvada ' village in Lunawada taluka on Tues-r day night, a delayed report said.1 Some six shops were either looted ‘ or set on fire by the mob in the, village, the police said.Anon and looting of shops was: also reported from Ajvana and Mota Undala villages, where three houses, kiosks and huts were set ablaze by miscreants.Indefinite curfew continued in the riot-tom Lunawada town on the sixth day today. However, no untoward incident was reported since yesterday.In Ranchi, indefinite curfew continued to remain in force in Doranda area today as security forces arrested 27 miscreants and recovered arms and ammunition from their possession.Curfew was clamped in Doranda on Tuesday when two groups of different communities clashed which was followed by police firing in which one person died and 12 others sustained injuries.In Madras the city police denied permission for the Ram jyothi procession through Triplicane area of the city today.The city police commissioner, Mr K.K. Rqjashekaran Nair, told newsmen the permission was denied “in view of the prevailing situation in the state.” Hie Vishwa Hindu Parishad had sought and had been granted permission for the processions up to October 10, he said. The denial of permission was only for this particular procession, he said, adding each case seeking permission had to be dealt with on merit.The toll in yesterday’s police firing on a violent crowd in Tamil Nadu’s Dharamapuri district has risen to four, with two persons succumbing in hospital.Three of the injured are stated to be in a serious condition. Over 40 persons, including some police personnel, were injured in the violence.The police made a lathi-charge and fired in the air to control the crowd which turned violent after permission was denied for a Ram jyothi procession to pass through a certain route Shops belonging to one com-munity were damaged and set on fire by the crowd. (The procession had earlier been stoned when it passed through a certain area).JD BLAMED (PTI from New Delhi): The BJP accused the Janata Dal and the Uttar Pradesh government of engineering the recent riots in Gonda and Colonelganj and demanded that they be inquired into by a supreme court judge or a high court judge from outside Uttar Pradesh.The inquiry should also look into the role of the chief minister, Mr Mulayam Singh Yadav, while the local M.P., Mr Munan Khan, and his associates should be arrested before the inquiry commences, Mr Madan Lai Khurana, BJP M.P., told a press conference here.Mr Khurana said that these demands of the BJP were based on the findings made by a five-member party team that visited the riot-affected areas on October 7 and eight to assess the situation.The BJP also demanded a public denial by the home minister, Mufti Mohd. Sayeed, of his reported statement at Colonelganj on October 9 that “all efforts will be made to stop Mr Advani’s rathyatra”.In another development, habeas corups petition was filed in the Allahabad high court challenging the petition of Mr Kalyan Singh, BJP leader in U.P. vidhan sabha and three other activists of the BJP who were arrested in Banda yesterday.Mr Gyan Chandra Dwivedi, a senior advocate of the Allahabad high court made a mention before Justice J. N. Dubey and Mr Justice P. P. Gupta on behalf of the petitioners.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Tension in Meerut, curfew onThe Times of India (1861-current); Jul 6, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1MEERUT, July 5 (UNI).TENSION flared up in the city this morning following last night’s incident in which a mob set afire a shop in the KishanpUri area, burning the shopkeeper to death.Tne authorities, taking stock of the situation, have decided not to extend the curfew relaxation period.A senior police official said the shopkeeper was Sleeping in his shop when miscreants set it afire.His charred body was recovered after the fire was extinguished.Earlier yesterday, bomb explosions were reported from some areas but no arrests had been made in this connec* tion, a spokesman said.He said the two police stations of Kankarkheda and Pratapur on the outskirts had been brought under the jurisdiction of Meerut city and the 12 police stations in the city were split into four units. Some changes had also been effected in the police set-up, he added.Curfew was fully relaxed in some. areas Railway Road, Pratapur, medical college and Civil Lines.Meanwhile, senior block and district officials this morning reviewed the situation at a joint meeting and decided to intensify the drive against anti-social elements.oday that the situation in Meerut was 'ast returning to normal.In a statement here after a three-day ;tay in Meerut, he said that he had told he local administration to take .tringent measures to curb any further )utbreak of violence.He called on all communities to restore self-confidence and also assured them that those officials who tended to be lax or did not take timely action to prevent recurrence of such incidents ivould be severely dealt with.Lucknow: Tension gripj>ed Aligarh ind Moradabad towns today as a ection of the business community [owned shutters in certain localities irotesting against the detention of the lhahi Imam of the Jama Masjid inoradnagar when he was on his way todeerut yesterday.A cracker-blast near Moradabad cotwali this morning created panic, but to untoward incident was reported, an Jfficial spokesman said.BARODA PEACEFUL (UNI from Baroda): No untoward incidents were reported from any part of the city today, official sources said.The curfew relaxation periods passed off peacefully, the sources said.The authorities have banned the entry into the city of IS Muslim leaders including the Shahi Imam of the Jama Masjid, Mauiana Syed Abdulla Bukhari, and the Balm Masjid action committee chief, Syed Shahbuddin.The army deployment in the city was withdrawn; last night following improvement' in the situation.APPEAL FOR PEACE (PT1 from New Delhi): The Uttar Pradesh home minister Mr Gopinath Dikshit, saidReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Zail for Tripura as toll mounts to 300Our Special CorrespondentThe Times of India (1861-current); Jun 11, 1980; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Mr. M. G. Ramachandran addressing a mammoth gathering on Mount Road soon after assuming office as chief ministerof Tamil Nadu on Monday afternoon. -TOI radiophoto.By Our Special Correspondent .NEW. DELHI, June 10.TITHE Union home minister, Mr. X Zail Singh, 'is rushing to Tripura where the agitation has taken a serious ‘ turn,^resulting ■ in the death of 300 persons in the last three days.	.The home minister made a brief-reference to the situation in Tripura during his reply to the debate in theLbk Sabha on .the Assam situation.; He said he had just received information that hundreds had been' killed and thousands rendered homeless. He would be leaving for Tripura tonight or tomorrow morning., Mr. Zail Singh said reinforcements of the Border. Security Force and the Central Reserve ■ Police were being rushed to Tripura. Two planeloads had already, reached there, but further flights had been held up because of bad weather at Gauhad., Agartala, (UNI): About 3,500 hoops and para-military personnel were being rushed to Tripura as the toll in the current disturbances rose to. 300 today. _	• , ' ''The disturbances; which were fast assuming the dimensions of an up-rising• by- the tribal©, were - continuing and the toll is likely to rise as reports from interior villages were still to reach, the .state headquartens.( ‘The; chief minister, Mr. Nripen Chakraborty, told newsmen that50,000	people had become homeless in the. disturbances. ’CURFEW CLAMPEDTripura West and Tripura South, two of the three districts of the state, were declared disturbed areas yesterday.Violence has been sweeping interior parts of the state-since Friday when the tribals launched a “bazaar boycott” movement.The chief minister said that he had sufficient reasons to spspect the involvement of foreign powers in the disturbances, He said tribal activistswere being charged with sedition and conspiracy to overthrow the legally established government. 1 'He said 600 activists of the Tripura Ijpajati Juva Samiti and its allied underground and overground organisations 6uch as the National Volunteers arid the Sengrack party had been arrested.	■PTI adds: Curfew has been clamped in the Greater Agartala city and its adjoining suburban areas from 5 p.m. to 6 a.m. for the fourth, day today, according to' an official announcement in Agartala.VIOLENCE 'CONTINUESViolence and arson.ripped through both northern.. an# southern outskirts of the capital town as. the 12-hour curfew ended at 6 a.m. on Tuesday, according to official reports. -' Reports said scores of homesteads in villages near Jirania in/ the north were set on fire and nearly 8,000 people had taken, shelter in the Jirania market. At Bisalgarh near Shi-pahijala, about 20 km. from here in trie 'north, armed tribals raided the forest post there, touching off- sporadic violence. Details were awaited.. Violence spread also to new areas in between Udaypur and Disramgorig where a large number of houses were set ablaze, reports added.The ^ Prime Minister, Mrs. Indira Gandhi, has in an urgent message to the chief minister, Mr. Nripen Chak-rabarti, expressed her concern over the disturbances since June 5 last, which had so far claimed about 300 lives.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Four killed in Jalgaon firingThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jul 14, 1980; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1[BOMBAY. .Tnlv (UNI): wour people cnea ana si were injured, including three police personnel, when the police resorted to firing on an unruly mob at Jalgaon to quell rioting between two communities, according to the Jalgaon police control room.The policq told UNI on phone that the trouble was a sequel to a fight between a. Harijan and a young man belonging to a minority community yesterday.Curfew has been imposed in the Balirampeth, Katafile and Senipeth areas of the city front 6 pjn. to 8 aan., according to the police. !	; .The senior superintendent of police and two other policemen were among those who received serious injuries, the police, sm’d.The. deputy inspector-general^of poMce, Nasik range, has rushed to Jalgaon.:	According to thepolice, the situation is now under control.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Clark, new U.S. envoy to IndiaThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 1, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 13Clark, new U.S. envoy to IndiaWASHINGTON, September 30 (Reuter): President George Bush said on Friday he had selected Mr William Clark, a career foreign service officer, to be U.S. ambassador to India. 0Mr Clark, currently principal deputy assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific affairs, has previously served as deputy chief of mission in Tokyo and Cairo.Mr Clark, 58, would succeed Mr'John Randolph Hubbard.The nomination requires Senate approval.2 killed in MP violenceINDORE, September 30 (UNI):An indefinite cunevir was damped on the district town of Khaigone in western Madhya Pradesh today, following large-scale violence which left two people dead and 18 injured.Official sources said person died in a bomb explosion at Jhanda Chowk, while the other was killed in another incident in the town. Seven of the iqjured had been hospitalised.The Khaigone district collector said the bomb explosion took place when a religious procession was passing through Jhanda Qhowk. The police fired in the air to control the situation,Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Patrolling in Delhi area intensifiedOur Staff CorrespondentThe Times of India (1861-current); Aug 19, 1983; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9Patrolling in Delhi area intensifiedBy Our Staff CorrespondentNEW DELHI, August 18; The Delhi police was today instructed to take strict action against anyone found spreading communal hatred in the Walled city and also make use of the National Security Act if necessary.These instructions were issued by the Lt. Governor, Mr. Jagmohan, at a high-level meeting of senior police officials which he convened to review the situation in the Hauz Qazi area where a riot had broken out last night.Meanwhile, the Delhi police stepped up its patrolling in the entire Walled city and posted pickets at various strategic points. Four companies have been deployed in the Hauz Qazi police station area alone, where prohibitory orders under section 144 have also been promulgated.A number of shops in Lai Kuan and adjoining localities remained closed and there were undercurrents of tension in the area though the situation was officially described as “normal”.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew in BarodaThe Times of India (J86J-current); Apr 28, 1982; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Curfew in BarodaBARODA, April 27 (UNI): An indefinite curfew was imposed in some localities; falling under the city police station at l a.m. todav r following last night’s clashes between two groups. ' • '	’  ■Ope woman was killed when the police opened fire to chase away mobs which ■ were stoning each 'other in the Panigate area last .night,No untoward incident had. been reported, after midnight in the area, police sources said.- ,The; police have arrested ten people-described as ‘‘anti-social’ elements”, in connection with the clash, the sources Said. • ,	’	,Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿ONE KILLED, 8 INJURED: RIOTS NEAR JABALPURThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jul 15, 1955; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1ONE KILLED, 8 INJUREDRiots Near Jabalpur“The Times of India News ServiceJABALPUR, July 14: One person died and eight others were seriously injured in communal riots over Janapad Sabha election^ at Damoh, about 66 miles from Jabalpur, on Wednesday.	•Three houses were burned to ashes in the disturbances.A special police force was rushed to Damoh from Saugor to bring the situation under control. Tension still prevails in the town.About 60 persons, including a municipal councillor, were reported to have been arrested in connection with the riots.According to a press note issued by the State Government, since the last municipal elections in Damoh, held in February, 1954, there have been two partes, between whom relations have been strained for quite some time. Their relations culminated in a flare-up in the early hours of July 13.About 50 “Koris” belonging to one of the parties attacked some persons belonging to the rival party living in the same locality. The latter happened to be Mus-liibs.	.The parties are hot organised communally. Hindus are to be forjnd in both the parties, which are led by Hindus. Members of both the parties have been already proceeded against under Section 107 Cr. P.C. and interim bonds have been , taken from them under Section 117.Offehces under Sections 149, 302, 332 I.P.C. have been registered against the attacking party, the press note concluded.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Indefinite curfew in BharuchThe Times of India (J86J-current); May 19, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1Indefinite curfew in BharuchAHMEDABAD, May 1$ (PTJ): An indefinite curfew was clamped in Bharuch town of south Gujarat today, where sudden outbreak of violence yesterday claimed three lives.■ The curfew, which was imposed last ' night, was relaxed for three hours from > 8 a.m. Although no incident was re-I ported during the relaxation period, i curfew was reimposed as a precau-1 tionary measure, the state police control here said.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Two killed in Mysore riotsThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 14, 1973; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Two killed in Mysore riotsThe Times oi India” News ServiceBANGALORE, September J3.IN the wave of violence, sweeping many parts of Mysore state, a person was fatally stabbed and another was reportedly killed in the police firing in Mandya, some 100 km. from here, today as the student protest against alleged police excesses and the price rise turned into a communal clash.Nearly 100 huts v.cre set oil fire. Several food giain shops were looted. Bases and cars were stoned, bringing road traffic between Bangalore and Mysore city passing through Mandya to a halt.The trouble appealed to have started when student demonstrators tried to force a shop to close down. In the clash, many were stabbed. Unofficial reports put the death roil at three.POLICE REINFORCEMENTSWhen tear-gas and lathi-charge proved ineffective, the police opened lire. Police reinforcements have been rushed to Mandya from Bangalore and other places. The inspector-general of police. Mr. C V. S. Rao,accompanied by senior police officers, has left for Mandya. Meetings and processions have been banned.As violence rocked other pans of the stare, a report from Chikkabal-lapur said shops had been looted anil a petrol bank was set on lire.In Bangalore, the police used tear-gas early today to i|ueil a mobnew Russel M stated that the:! kct. But ,1 ' v a trouble had no connection with th^ student agitation. 1T was attributed Jo a crowd which got some mischievous some crackers intoinfuriated when elements threw a bus.Buses and ct stoned in somers continued to be parts of Bangalore.Food riots have 3lso occurred inMysore city, Thirumakudlu-Narasi-pur and Hunsur, all in Mysore district.Large-scale looting of shops, rice mills and godowns was reported.The police used tear-gas at T-Narasipur and fired shots in the air at Hunsur to quell rioting mobs.Students had originally started the agitation to protest against alleged police excesses at Hassan where a 2l)-ycar-old man died at the police station last month.Meanwhile, the state government has ordered a judicial inquiry , into the cause of the death of the man, stated to be a mason named Raja.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿More violence in MirajThe Times of India (J86J-current); Apr 3, 1983; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1More violence in MirajSANGLl, April 2 (PTI); Fresh in-cidcnts of violence were reported in the riot-hit Miraj township near here early today.	_About a dozen vegetable and fruit-stalls in the Laxmi market area were set ablaze and miscreants also ransacked a dairy near a place of worship and emptied 300 litres of milk on i the street, the police said.Meanwhile, autorickshaws were off Ihe road for the second consecutive day in Sangli today in protest against the treatment meted out to one of the rickshaw drivers by the police during the past two days.A number of rickshaws, damaged in yesterday’s violence here, were I seen at various places.The district collector, Mr. Ratnakar Wagh, suspended the functioning of the weekly market today. Police bandobust in both cities has been stepped up, even as prohibitory orders effective up to April 4 since yesterday, were being enforced.	_The two-day violence, erupting in Miraj township with a group clash on Thursday last, spread to nearby Sangli yesterday.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Politicised CommunalismThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 26, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 14Politicised CommunalismBarely a week after the Bihar chief minister, Mr S. N. Sinha, had claimed in New Delhi that there was no communal tension in the state, the state witnessed a chain of clashes between Hindus and Muslims at Sitamarhi, Bhagalpur, Darbhanga and elsewhere which have left at least 40 dead. In each case, rioting was a sequel to- the Ramshila processions in which participants carried lethal weapons, raised provocative slogans and in short ensured that a clash became inevitable. In Bhagalpur and Sitamarhi, for instance, there was a deliberate attempt at provoking the minorities by making their places of worship the targets of attack. The organisers of the Ramshila pujas are certainly to blame for these riots but the state administration also bears a large part of the responsibility. While tension over these pujas was building up over the past several weeks, there was no evidence that the administration made any effort to gear itself up to meet the challenge. Even when the noting actually broke, out in several districts, the police initially remained silent spectators, acting only when it was too late. Now, locking the: stable after the horse has bolted, the army has been called out in Bhagalpur.It should be noted that the rioting did not erupt simultaneously in all the affected districts but the administration does not appear to have responded to the first outbreaks by taking preventive measures in other sensitive areas. With the JLok Sabha polls less than a month away, did this suggest a design to engulf the second largest state in an atmosphere not conducive to a fair poll? The communal card has always been played at election time, and not by forces like the BJP alone. Judging by the rapidity with which communal tension is gripping large areas of the state, it would be too simplistic to lay the blame on to have been officially noted and communicated to the chief secretary by the district magistrate. Obviously strong and urgent measures are. needed to see that basic values of secularism are not; sacrificed at the altar of partisan politics. At the same time, the creation of a vicious communal climate which makes it possible fot agents provocateurs to realise their designs also poses a grave challenge. It is probably no mere coincidence that the riots in the state have up to now notbroken out in areas where the Indian People’s Front has a substantial presence.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿2 hurt in Bihar town firingThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 25, 1992; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 92 hurt in Bihar town, firingThe Times of India News ServiceSAHARSA, September 24: The police on Tuesday resorted to firing to disperse a violent mob at Sonebarsa, demanding subdivisional status to Sonebarsa. While the Saharsa districtmagistrate (DM) denied that anyone was injured in the three rounds of firing, unconfirmed reports said two people were injured in the firing and over a dozen in lathi-charge.The DM further said the police firing took place following firing from the mob.Tension was brewing at Sonebarsa since Tuesday morning in view of the chief minister’s scheduled programme at Simri Bakhtiarpur where he formally declared Simri-Bakhtiarpur as a sub division.The people at Sonebarsa were agitated because the chief minister had announced a subdivisional status for it long before he made a similar pronouncement for Simri-Bakhtiarnur.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Sporadic violence continuesThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Dec 15, 1992; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 11The Times of India News Service BANGALORE. Dec. 14.FIVE more deaths were reported from Mysore, Mandya and Dharwad today taking the toll in the Ayodhya backlash in the state to 80 today, the worst-ever communal violence-related death roll in Karnataka. The toll in the last communal riots, in 1990, was7 ATwo persons were killed in Mysore during the early hours of the morning when the police opened fire on rioting mobs. The situation in Mysore continues to be tense even after the army staged yfet another flag march in the city. I In Mandya, two persons died last night due to injuries in an incident on December 12 in which a watchman and his son were clubbed to death by a mob and set on fire. Today, a mob of about 100 men assaulted police constables near the KRS dam, snatched away their weapons and damaged a place of worship.	jMobs also burnt a wood depot jn Chitradurga, where a peace committee was also held to ease the tension.	!One person who sustained injuries in an earlier incident in Dharwad succumbed to . his wounds today. Kunigal, though it did not report any deaths pr violent incidents, continues to be tense, according to the police.	IKolar continues under curlew though it was relaxed during this morning! Section 144 has been extended in eight talukas of Kolar until December 19.Curfew will continue in all these places, the police said.PTI adds:New Delhi: The situation in the riot-tom areas of the city was peaceful and fast limping to normal today, as curfew was relaxed in most of the affected areas for four to two hours in phases.The toll in police firing and arson went up to 18 with the recovery of one more body from Seelampur in north-east Delhi, the police said.Patna: The Bihar chief minister, Mr Laloo Prasad, today announced that the government would impose collective fines on people of villages and towns which witnessed communal riots in the wake of the Ayodhya outrage.Meanwhile, with the killing of two persons since last night and recovery of six more bodies, the death roll in communal frenzy and police firing in the state rose to 40, according to the home secretary, Mr J. L. Arya.Ahmedabad: Stray incidents of arson were reported from Amaraiwadi, Vatva and Astodia areas of the city late last night. Curfew was relaxed for women andchildren in the city from 8 a.m. in phases, the police said.Bhopal: Riot-affected areas in Madhya Pradesh especially in the state capital, Bhopal, are limping back to normalcy, even as a body was recovered here, taking the death roll to 128 in the state, with the city alone accounting for 103 deaths, official sources said.Barring stray incidents of fire at two slums here, the situation in the rest of the state was stated to be “peaceful” in the last 24 hours.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿RIOTS BREAK OUT IN ALIGARH: 7 KILLED, 40 INJUREDOur Own CorrespondentThe Times of India (1861-current); Mar 6, 1950; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1RIOTS BREAK OUT IN ALIGARH7 Killed, 40 InjuredFrom 0>ir Own Correspondent ALIGARH, March 5. Five persons were killed and 40 injured in communal disturbances here on Saturday.There were many cases of looting and arson. Houses and shops were set on lire. Two persons travelling by the 139 Up Agra-Delhi Passenger were killed by rioters when the train halted at a signal awaiting clearance of the line.The District Magistrate applied a 24-hour curfew and 125 persons, were arrested. for breach of the* curfew order. About 60 persons were also taken into custody for rioting.Rioting In Pilibhiti	From Our Own Correspondent .PILIBHIT, March 5: Rioting started .in the city yesterday, when a HoU procession passing through a ‘mohair la’, was attacked with brickbats, resulting in injury to seven persons. The trouble then spread to other localities. . . The authorities took prompt action to quell the riots.A few cases of arson and looting: have been reported. Over 200 arrests have been effected and orders Under Section 144 C.P.C. have been promulgated for a month Curfew has been imposed in the town.Katni IncidentFrom Our Own Correspondent KATNI, March 5: One person was  ' apd a number injured when a eonimuhal .ri<Myd*»ke^ over the throwing of coloured water during Holi celebrations. A number of shops were looted and some burnt. Police reinforcements from Jubbulpore were called in to bring the situation under control.Gwalior ClashGWALIOR, March 4: Holi celebrations in Gwalior today were marred by. a minor fracas in which fiv6 persons were injured.It is stated that a partv celebrat-in Holi threw coloured water on some persons who objected to it. This resulted in a clash.The District Magistrate has issued an order banning processions, meetings and assembly of more than seven persons.—P.T.I,Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Sambalpur HartalThe Times of India (J86J-current); Mar 21, 1964; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Sambalpur Hartaline l imes ot India” News ServiceSAMBALPUR, March 20: Following the worsening of the situation in Jharsuguda this morning, strong armed police and military patrols were deployed in the town. Two persons with knife injuries were admitted to hospital.	_The Cliief Minister, Mr. Biren Mitra, cancelled his Jharsuguda programme today.	.Sambalpur town, meanwhile, observed hartal today in protest against the atrocities on tire minorities in East Pakistan by; the Government there.Jharsuguda: Eight persons were taken into custody following the burning of four liquor shops in the rural areas and stray stabbing cases before the imposition of the 24-hour curfew.—P.T.I.6 KILLED IN JAMSHEDPUR Curfew Imposed.JAMSHEDPUR, March 20:	Sixpersons were reported to hav<^ been killed and several injured in stray cases of stabbing and incendiarism in different parts of the city today.An eight-hour curfew from 9 p.m. to 5 a.m. was imposed on the city.The authorities had promulgated orders under Section 144 Cr.P.C. last night, prohibiting the assembly of five or more persons and carrying of weapons.—P.TI.2 U.N. OBSERVERS HURT IN BLAST Ramgarh MishapJAMMU, March 20: Two U.N.observers and a Pakistani military official were seriously injured in a grenade explosion in the Ramgarh graveyard area yesterday.A report received here today said that the observers had gone to the disputed graveyard to take steps to stabilise the cease-fire in the area, as agreed upon by the divisional commanders of India and Pakistan.— P.T.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Shoot-at-sight orders in MeerutThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); May 21, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1inMeerutThe Times of India News ServiceLUCKNOW, May 20.OHOOT-at-sight orders were enforced in riot-hit Meerut today and army jawans along with the pojice and paramilitary forces strictly implemented curfew restrictions.Our Meerut correspondent reports that firing, arson and looting continued for the third day today. 'The district magistrate, Mr R. S. Kaushik, told newsmen that 20 people were killed, in the communal riots which started on the night of May 18. However, unofficial sources put the death roll at over 70.Despite the heavy police, TAC and CRPF patrolling in the curfew-bound areas, violence spread to several new areas’ today. At least six more bodies were recovered from the affected areas, according to an official source.The authorities have formed a number of police parties to search for firearms and trouble-makers in houses and even in places of worship.Army men were deployed on Pilokhari road, Chhatta road, Hapur road and Zaid Bagh in the affected areas. They staged a flag march again today in the curfew-bound areas. An army battalion was kept as reserve.The principal home secretary, Mr Mata Prasad, told reporters here this evening that patrolling was intensified in Meerut with additional police reinforcements. Armed pickets were posted at a number of sensitive points in the city. He said the situation there was tense but fully under control.Mr Prasad said only three people were killed in police firing and the rest pf the victims1 were stabbed to death.In all, 290 people have so far been arrested in the wake of the rioting which necessitated imposition of curfew since 6 a.ny. yesterday for an indefinite period in the affected areas.The Union minister for urban development, Mrs Mohsina Kidwai, who represents Meerut in the Lok Sabha, has instructed the district administration to deal firmly with anti-social elements, reports' PTI.The Uttar Pradesh chief minister, Mr Vir Bahadur Singh, accompanied by the state home minister, Mr Gopi Nath Dixit, and senior district and army officers today again went round the troubled localities.FLAG MARCH (tOlNS from New Delhi): The army and the Central Reserve Police force staged a flag march this morning in the curfcw-bound areas of the walled city, where two men died and several others were hurt in last night’s communal violence.The police commissioner, Mr Ved Marwah, has clamped prohibitory orders on the areas and on carrying ofarms throughout the capital for the next five days. The curfew will continue until the situation is back to normal.	;The police carried out house-tb-house searches in the old city during the night and early this morning arid arrested 52 people.	:.A police spokesman said that they were considering the imposition jof “collective fines” to deter residents pf the old city resorting to rumourmongering and violence. The policehave taken a “serious view” of the recurring communal violence at Chandni . Chowk and neighbouring areas and ordered an “immediate crackdown” on mischief-makers, he said.Last night’s violence began with ;a minor accident at Sarak involving a motorcycle and a bicycle. A woman on the pillion of the motor-cycle was allegedly teased by the cyclist and the incident snowballed into full-scale rkft-ing.	~;The police fired at least 16 rounds and burst tear-gas shells. Twenty-three people were admitted to hospitals aftfer the violence.The lieut-govemor, Mr K. L Kapur, and the police commissioner visited the walled city again this morning. After his visit, Mr Kapur announced an ex-gratia compensation of iSs.20,000	to the next of kin of those who died in the violence. A sum Rs. 2,500 each would also be given to the seriously wounded.	;SITUATION REVIEWED (TOINS): The situation in Meerit following the communal riots that rocked the western UP town was^fe-viewed by the home minister, MrBljta Singh, today afterthe minister of state, Mr P. Chidambaram, gave him a report on his visit to the affected areasyesterday.	...He discussed the anti-riot measures taken in the town with the local law-enforcing authorities.	7It was stated that the Centre was. keeping a close watch on the situation, Ahmedabad (PTI): The indefinite curfew clamped on Bharuch town in south Gujarat on Monday, following, riots which left five dead, was relaxed for three hours from 10.30 a.m. today.No incident has been reported front the town since yesterday.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿2 killed in clashes in HazaribaghThe Times of India (J86J-current); Apr 14, 1973; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1PATNA, April 13.D USK-i|p-DAWN curlew was damped tonight on Hazaribagh town and its suburbs following clashes in which two persons wqrc officially reported stabbed to death and 15 others injured.Several cases of arson and looting vere also reported during the larc-up hut night which, according o official sources, was a sequel to in attack on a Ram Navami proces-don in Tclawal village, three kilo-nctres from Hazaribagh.The situation deteriorated during he early part of the night owing to requent power failures which pinned the town in darkness, taking ad-■antage of which anti-social elements ndulged in looting and arson. About i dozen shops were burnt down and t number of mud houses were also eported to have been set on fire.Armed pplice and two companies >f Border Security Force have been strolling the affected	areas sinceast night and by early morning the iluation was stated to have been irought under control.The deputy commissioner of Hazari-iagh, Mr. K. K. Saha, said there ras no incident after 0300 hours oday.By midday nday 116 persons had cen arrested Tn connection with the ficidcnts. The injured	were beingrented in hospital.—P.T.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Police firing in Jalgaon, 4 deadThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jun 10, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1The Times of India News ServiceJALGAON, June 9.TENSION prevails at Kasoda in Erandol tehsil, some 40 km from here, where the police opened fire yesterday, killing four people and seriously injuring several others, to disperse two clashing groups of people.Thirty people were injured in stonethrowing.A 24-hour curfew clamped on the area was lifted this morning, but reimposed soon afterwards for another 24 hours. No untoward incident has been reported during the curfew period so far, the police said.Yesterday, the Maharashtra minister of state for home, Mr J. T. Mahajan, who visited the area, ordered a magisterial inquiry into the firing. He was accompanied by the collector ofJalgaon, Mr Ganesh Banawalkar, and sensitive trouble spots, the DIG (Nasik), Mr Charan Singh He declined to say anything regard-Azad.	ing the writ petition filed by theThe police said 40 houses and a row director-general of police, Mr S. S. Jog, of zopadpattis were burnt down. Some objecting to the writing of the confiden-people sustained bums. Forty-three tial report of the DGP by the home arrests have been made so far. secretary, as the matter is sub judice.Tension was mounting in the area MEERUT NORMAL (PTI from following the alleged slaughter of four Meerut): Life in Meerut came back to cows. A protest bandh was called normal as day curfew was lifted m the yesterday by the Shiv Sena, the Vishwa riot-hit city.	.Hindu Parishad and the Patit Pawan All government offices, banks, busi-Sanghatna.	ness establishments, markets and fac-Mr Brijlal Patil, the district Janata tones opened and functioned normally party president, has demanded a ju- while the Meerut-Delhi and othenong; dicial inquiry into the incidents. distance bus services of the UPSTC Our staff reporter adds from Bom- were on. bay: The chief minister, Mr S. B.	Meanwhile, three more persons wereChavan said that the situation in detained under the National Security Jalgaon was under control today. Act and the number of detenus under He said that the state government NSA has gone up to 27 since April 14. was concerned about the fact that BAN ON RALLIES EXTENDED communal incidents were coming up (TOINS from Lucknow): The U.P. in places which were not identified as cabinet today extended the ban on theReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permissionholding of rallies, public meetings and demonstrations for IS days in 38 sensitive districts. The ban was imposed on May 24 for a fortnight in 32 sensitive districts aimed at ensuring peace and harmony.	.. 'MORE OFFICIALS SHIFTEp: Close on the heels of the transfer of the director-general of police, Mr D. -S. Bhatnagar, as the DG (prosecutioh), the government today transferred thfte deputy inspectors-general of policelto streamline the police set-up in sensitive areas.	;;CURFEW OFF (PTI from Bharuch): Curfew was lifted jin Bharuch in south Gujarat this morning as normalcy had returned to the town.Curfew was clamped on Bharuch hn May 18, following a flare-up whfch claimed six lives and left many m$re injured.	i.In Amreli, only night curfew was*!* force, the state police control said*
﻿Riots again in Baroda: one killedOur Staff CorrespondentThe Times of India (1861-current); Nov 2, 1982; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Riots again in Baroda: one killedBy Our Staff CorrespondentBARODA, November 1.WITH two stabbings, one of which proved fatal, and several incidents of arson, the situation deteriorated on the fifth day of violence here today. The bulk of today’s violence was confined to the most sensitive Wadi area.Stabbing incidents occurred in the Wadi area between 2 p.m. and 5 p.m. when curfew was relaxed.A motorcyclist was killed when he was attacked by a mob armed with “dharias” near Wadi Rangmahal, while another person was seriously injured when he was attacked with an ice-poker.In fact, the- situation in the Wadi area took an ugly turn after midnight last night when a 500-strong mob went on a looting spree. The police burst five teargas shells to disperse it. But after half-an-hour, the mob succeeded in setting aflame a godown of crackers.About 11 am,, again in Wadi, two shops and a packaging factory were set on fire. Around the same time, cart loaded with “mandap” material outside Pani gate was also set on fire.Stabbing incidents aggravated tension in Wadi, where even during theContinued on Page 9 Column 8Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.Riots again in BarodaContinued from Page 1 Column 3curfew relaxation period this correspondent found hardly any shop open.Even as the authorities have decided to continue to retain the 300 army jawans who were deployed on October 29. measures are being taken to strengthen the police intelligence network. according to Mr. Indrajit Vaish-nav. special IGP, who has been camping here since the violence broke out,Mr. Vaishnav said that 15 more jeeps along with 15 sub-inspectors and the escort parties had been requisitioned. In view of today's incidents, he said some new strategy was being contemplated in consultation with the director-general of Gujarat police, Mr. P. N. Writer, and special IGP, Mr. Y. B. Zhala, who arrived here yesterday from Ahmedabad.More than 550 people have been arrested since Wednesday night when the trouble began, and cases for various offences like rioting, murder, breach of curfew and instigation have been registered against them, adds UNI:Five persons have been arrested so far under the National Security Act (NSA), the police sourfces said.Meanwhile, it was learnt that seven Congress (I) corporators, including Mr. Nissar Bapu Saiyad, deputy mayor, were under pressure from Muslim leaders to resign from the party in protest against “police atrocities.”Dr. B. G. Parekh, vice-chancellor of the M. S. University, announced that the mid-year vacation had been advanced. It commenced today instead of November 8.A spokesman of the Police Karma-chari Mandal said that it had decided to give a “notice” to the vicechancellor, drawing his attention to what they termed as a “provocative statement” by a teacher of M. S. University, Mr. Bandukwala, belonging to the minority community.Abmedabad; The police burst tear-gas shells to disperse two groups of people which clashed after a procession at Kalol town, about 40 km. from here, last night.The clash occured when some miscreants pelted stones at the procession.The police had also made a lathi charge, according to the state police control here.Meerut: A seven-year-old girl was injured today when a bomb on the second floor-roof of her neighbour in Pnrwailahi Bux locality exploded while she was at play there.The police rushed to the spot and recovered another un-exploded bomb lying near the place of explosion.The land lady of the house has been arrested.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Police firing in Bellary kills 2The Times of India (J86J-current); Oct 11, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 7BANGALORE. Oct. 10 (UNI).TWO people were killed and several others injured whenpolice opened fire to quell a rioting group at Hospel, in :Bellary district, last night.The director-general of police, Mr A. R. Nizamuddin, said a number of people were injured in thp firing and 'stone-throwing incidents! Property .worth Rs l.S lakhs was destroyed in the town following the rioting.Mr Nizamuddin said the trouble began when stones were thrown at a place of worship while a procession was passing by. The police rushed to the spot and averted a clash. However, rumours soon spread in the town that the procession was stoned by another group, leading to arson and rioting.He said the police force again rushed to the place and warned the group but in vain. After the lathi-charge, teargas shells and firing in the air proved futile, the rioters were , fired upon, resulting in two deaths. ! Many were injured.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿TENSION IN ALIGARH: VARSITY CLOSED FOR 18 DAYSThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 5, 1961; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1TENSION IN ALIGARHVarsity Closed For 18 DaysALIGARH, October 4.A L1GARH Muslim University ■i*- will be closed for 18 days from today in view of the tension that has gripped the town after yesterday’s incidents.bix persons were Killed and 4_t injured in clashes in various parts of the town yesterday. No incident was reported today.The authorities relaxed for two hours the curfew restrictions imposed in the town last night.Police reinforcements have been brought to the town from other parts of the State.The trouble started on Sunday when the results of the elections to the University Students’ Union were announced. The victorious group was reported to have held a procession when clashes occurred in the campus. Yesterday there were clashes again when the other section of the students took out a procession.TRAINS DETAINEDAt the local railway station this morning two trains were detained for about 45 minutes tearing that students might slop the trains at the outer signal. The trains later left under heavy armed guard.Armed policemen have been posted at strategic points at the campus as well as in the thickly-populated areasContinued on Page 7 Column 3Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Spurt of communal riots in RajasthanThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jun 4, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of Indiapg. 16Spurt of communal riots in Rajasthani:The Times of India News ServiceJAIPUR, June 3.THERE has been a sudden spurt in communal violence in the state.* While cuirfew continues in Tonk and Sirohi districts, tension persists in Beegod and Makrana which were the scene of communal clashes recently.On Thursday tension prevailed even in Jaipur where a member of a particular community was killed after a dispute. But the government does not believe these are pre-planned.The state government has sent directives to the district collector* and superintendents of police to take precautionary measures against the recurrence of such incidents.The state home secretary, Mr R. Ramakrishna, has ruled out any definite design in these incidents even as he contended that these were stray incidents of law and order which had been blown into cases of communal violence.In Sirohi district, communal peace has been disturbed for the secondume during the past tew months. Earlier, violence broke out--in Swarupgaqj area where four cases, of rioting were registered. Fresh violence broke out in Jawal Village .on Thursday where two penons were killed and . 20 others, including 4wo women, injured. It followed an indent of eve-teasing.	--Tonk city was rocked by violence as a youth was killed, again overthe issue of eve-teasing. Curfew continues in some parts of the city while the police took out a flag march yesterday. In Beegod and Makrana it was, however, religious fervour which flared up to take the shape'of communal violence. Property worth crores of rupees was destroyed in Makrana, whereas in Beegod a complete bandh was observed by shopkeepers for two months to protest against the alleged police inacticm'in apprehending the culprits. f According to the police, mule there was nO apparent cause for the sudden increase in the numbef'.ibf communal incidents, it cannot-be denied that political parties hiVe been trying to make capital of-the troubled' situation because of the general elections drawing closer.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿4 die in Srinagar firingThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Aug 19, 1988; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1The limes of India News Service SRINAGAR, August 18.lean iour persons were in police firing here and several incidents of violence and arson1 were reported from other ports of the Kashmir valley today following the death of the PakistanPresident Gen Zia.TT1.Han The district authorities of Srinagar imposed indefinite curfew and issued &hoot-at-sight orders this morning.Army assistance has been sought to quell Pro-Pakistan mobs which have damaged several shops and houses belonging to members of the minority community and tried to bum someplaces of worship.Armoured cars and pan-military .forces are patrolling the city, while police bandobast has berm tightened at places of worship.The divisional commissioner ofKashmir, Mr Shafi Pandit, toldTOINS that in Baramulla district of the valley, mobs hajd set fire to a public hall, a government petrol pump, a hotel and a cinema hafl.	,The offices of the Congress andthe National Conference—partners in the ruling alliance—werc also damaged by the demonstrators.In Ahantnag district, he said mobs raising anti-India slogans took, to streets and tried to set fire to a place of worship- Some shops and vehicles were also damaged in Ananfnag town.A senior police officer said the police had to open fire, at several places in Srinagar dty when the tear-gas shells and lathi-charge could not control the mobs which ianncd out in the city since news of Gen Zia’s death was broadcast last nightThe police resorted to firing when a large crowd tried to set fire to some shops in the Chhota area this morning. One Manzoor Ahmad was killed in the police firing, the nffirer said.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Seven more killed in AhmedabadThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Dec 13, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1BSF DEPLOYED IN RIOT AREASSeven more killedin AhmedabadThe Times of India News ServiceAHMEDABAD, Dec. 12.THE army staged a flag march in the trouble-tom areas of the city today, even as the continued violence claimed seven more lives and left 45 injured in police firing, stabbing, explosion and stone-throwing incidents.Three columns of the Maratha Light Regiment moved into the city and carried out flag marches in the Shahpur, Bapunagar, Gomtipur and Jamalpur areaswhich were rocked by large-scaleviolence yesterday.Three companies of the Border Security Force (BSF) which were flown here from Delhi this morning have been deployed in these areas. Two companies of the CRPF are expected to arrive here tonight.Indefinite curfew was today extended to areas under the jurisdiction of Dariapur, Behrampura and Saraspur police stations following group clashes, arson and looting. No curfew relaxation was allowed atBapunagar, Gomtipur, Shahpur, Kalupur, Haveli and Karanj.At Bapunagar, a 2,000-strong mob went on the rampage indulging in stone-throwing, looting and arson. The police fired 100 rounds and lobbed 120 teargas shells to quell the mob, resulting in two deaths and injuries to eight others.Earlier, the mob went on a stabbing spree, killing two on the spot. Eight injured were admitted to the Shardaben hospital, where the condition of three is reported to be serious.An SRP jawan was injured in “private firing” near Charodiya police chawky, which was later set on fire by a mob. Most of the furniture and documents of the chawky were destroyed in the fire.The situation took a serious turn in the chawls near the Bapunagar General Hospital, where one person was stoned to death by a group of six. people.According to official sources nine explosions took place at Bapunagar. Some of the houses were badly damaged in the explosions and at least eight people sustained serious bums.The mob set on fire eight huts near a chawl at Hardasnagar. They alsolooted and set ablaze six houses. The fire brigade personnel had a tough time in extinguishing the fire as their vehicles were heavily stoned by the rioters.Group clashes continued in the Bapunagar area for nearly three hours and it was only in the evening that the situation could be brought under control.Several incidents of arson and looting were reported from the Gomtipur area, when two groups of people hurled burning rags on each other. Four houses were looted and set on fire. Four people were stabbed near Chartoda graveyard and a “private firing was also reported.The police fired 12 rounds to disperse the warring groups in the Gomtipur area, injuring three people. Group clashes were also reported from the Behrampura area. In the heavy stone-throwing that followed the clashes, three people were seriously injured. The police lobbed ten tear-fas shells and opened fire for controlling the violence. Nine rounds were fired, but none was injured.However, the chief minister, Mr Chimanbhai Patel, told reporters thisReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.(Continued from Page 1)evening that only one person was stabbed to death and three others were injured in police firing today.Mr Patel also maintained that the police had fired only 37 rounds yesterday and a few rounds today, but the official sources confirmed that the police had fired not less than 200 rounds in the last two days. Apparently, he was trying to play down the situation.However, the chief minister was perturbed by the new phenomenon of “private firing” (firing by a member of the public) in some parts of the city in the last three days and said he had instructed the commissioner of police to carry out intensive combing in sensitive areas.	.An order had been issued, asking all licensed arms holders to depositthe weapons with the police witnurz* hours. There were incidents of^fiie police and the SRP personnel being assaulted and the government j£d taken a serious view of the situation, Mr Patel said. An SRP jawan m injured today in a private firing aM another police man was stabbed But night, he admitted.As one police constable was stanst to death by a mob last night, the SRP unit was withdrawn from [the sensitive area of Dariapur. There.™ a demoralisation in the rank anajjfe of the police, although the chief minister maintained there waslbh reason for such demoralisation. niir Mr Patel said that more than people had been detained and nw arrests were likely as the addition commissioner of police, Mr Mahapatra, had been entrusted wftB' the task of weeding out anti-soond elements from the city. DuringrtfcCj combing operation in some the city, acid bulbs and sevj “kakadas” (rags used for tourches) were seized by the po: he added.	.	811Extension for JD^g-rebels* clarificationNEW DELHI, December 12 (UNI): The Lok Sabha speaker, Mr Rabi Ray, has conceded the request of the Prime Minister, Mr Chandra Shekhar, and extended time up to December 31 for the clarification#, the MPs who have switched over,to the Janata Dal (S) from the Jafg$Briefing newsmen here, the Jaftaft Dal general secretary, Mr Srr. Malaviya, said Mr Ray in a lettopto the Prime Minister had made it dear that no further extension of would be allowed to the MPs.The Prime Minister in his cap as the leader of Janata Dal (S) ] mentary party, had written.to speaker for extension of time Ob' several members who were sewm. notice by the speaker for clarificafofij. were not available immediaj^jj^Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Boy dies in firing in AhmedabadThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jan 15, 1985; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 9Boy dies in firing in AhmedabadAHMEDABAD, January 14 (UNI & PTI): A 12-year-old bov was killed and a young man injured when the police opened fire to/quell communal clashes in the city’s Daria* pur and Kalupur areas ' today.The trouble arose over kite-flying on Makar Sankarahti” today at Nagina Pole and Wad’fiam in the Dariapur area.The police fired 23 rounds at twoplaces, after bursting a number ofteargas shells in a vain attempt to control die mob throwing stones and burning cloth, pieces at one another.Eleven police personnel, including three officers, and a riufnbei of rioters were injured'in stone-throwing.The boy succumbed to bullet injuries in the V. S. Hospital while the man had been admitted to the civil hospital,, where he was stated to be out of danger.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Tripura villagers kill man, wound fourThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 24, 1985; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 7Tripura villagers kill man, wound fourAGARTALA, September 23 (PTI): Villagers hacked to death one person and injured four others, including a woman, at Pushkarini, under Sidhai police station in West district, about 15 km from here yesterday, according to the police.MOB TEAR-GASSED (UNI): The police used tear-gas to disperse a stone-throwiflg crowd at Ranebennur,100 km from Hubli, on Sunday night.Tire police said the trouble started,	Ywhen miscreants threw stones at a ganesha procession. The processionists s asked the police to take action.	hReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿One dies, 100 hurt in clashesThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 29, 1985; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1One dies. 100 hurtin clashesBOMBAY, September 28 (UNI): A man was killed and at least 100, including a number of policemen, were injured in violent incidents at some places in Jalgaon, Akola and Kolhapur districts where police resorted to lathi-charge, firing and bursting of several tear-gas shells yesterday.The entire Jalgaon city limits were brought under dusk-to-dawncurfew following inidents after the Ganpati processions, reports reaching the state police headquarters here said today.On seeing the mob turn violent, the Kolhapur district superintendent ol police declared “unlawful assembly o! people*’ in the area where the trouble erupted, the police said.Heavy police as well as state reserve police reinforcements had been despatched to the troubled areas where the sitpation was reported to be “tense yet under complete control*’ they said.The incidents followed, objections raised by rival groups on passing ol processions, playing of music and dancing as well as throwing 4gulal* atcertain sensitive spots, the police stated *1Akola (TOINS): The police fired three rounds in the air to disperse two groups of processionists who indulged in stone-throwing, injuring 16 people, at Patur, 32 km. from here, on Friday.Baroda (UNI): Peace prevailed in Baroda and the nearby Chhota Udepur town on Saturday after Friday night’s violence during the Ganesh festival.In Chhota Udepur, the curfew imposed late on Friday night was lifted on Saturday.The police had fired two rounds there to scatter stoning mobs, but. no one was injured. Five prsons wei£ arrested in this connection, the policy said.	•Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿3 killed in TN group clashThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jul 15, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1i kitted in TNsrouD clashMADRAS, July 14 (PTI & UNI): Three persons were tailed and 11, including a police inspector, were injured when the police fired at- two cMinggpups MQn®^Q.4fent communities today atAnipukottai in Kamarajar district, official sources here said.The sources said the clash occurred when some persons of a community objected to die erection of a flag post by the other community near a place of worship.While six of the injured were admitted to Arupukottai government hospital, five others, including the inspector, was admitted to be government hospital in Madurai.Senior police officials from Madurai and Virudhunagar, the district headquarters, haye rushed to the spot.	•■ Five shops, two houses and one i clinic were burnt by the mobs. The loss was estimated at Rs 3 lakhs.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿NEW KASHMIR CABINET: DISCUSSIONS REACH ADVANCED STAGEThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Aug 13, 1953; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1NEW KASHMIR CABINETDiscussions Reach Advanced Stage“The Times of India” News ServiceSRINAGAR, August 12.Thfe personnel of the Cabinet of Bakshi Ghulam Mohammed, the new Premier of Jammu and Kashmir, is expected to be announced in a day or two.	iTalks on the composition of the Cabinet reached an advanced stage today. The Premier had prolonged discussions throughout the day with leaders of the National Conference—the party in power—from different parts of the State.According to present indications, the Cabinet will consist of five members—the same strength as the Abdullah Cabinet. At present, there are only two Ministers, following the removal of Sheikh Abdullah and Mirza Afzal Beg.An effort is being made to constitute the Cabinet with men who are completely in agreement with the broad policy enunciated by the Prime Minister in his broadcast on Sunday night.A number of National Conference workers called on the Prime Minister today to assure him of their support to the new Government and its policies.PLAN OF ACTIONTheu were also several meetings luring the day with higher administrative personnel at which the plan of action to tone up the administration and rid it of corruption was discussed.Srinagar was quiet today, though in the old city the hartal continued. There were some(Continued, on page 7, col. 5)Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.THREE KILLED IN FIRINGIncident Near Srinagar(Continued from page 1, col. 3)arrests, including one official. It was confirmed today that there were four deaths from last evening’s firing by the militia on,an unruly mob which had collected near the Juma Masjid in Srinagar.A bus service was inaugurated in the city this morning. A dozen buses operated on three different routes from one end of the city to the other. This restored to some extent the confidence among the public, who, in the complete absence of even tongas on the streets, found movement difficult.SCHOOLS REOPENMost of the schools here will reopen tomorrow after the week-end. Reports from the districts indicated that the situation is now returning to normalcy. Theie was police firing in Anantnag, 35 miles from Srinagar, this, morning and an official spokesman said the crowd indulged in stone-throwing at the police and the militia. The firing resulted in three deaths. The Times of India News Service representative visited Anantnag in the afternoon. The town presented a deserted look, as did some of the villages on the way.There was another incident at Rampur, nine miles from Srinagar. The crowd was lathi-charged and dispersed.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Ban on Mufti, Gujral in AligarhThe Times of India (J86J-current); Dec 12, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1NEW DELHI, Dec. 11 (UNI).'T'HKEt lormer ministers,.. Mufti Mohammed Sayeed, Mr I. K. Gujral and Mr Satyapal Malik, and several other Janata Dal leaders were today denied entry into riot-tom Aligarh town which they had wanted to visit for an on-the-spot assessment of the communal situation.When the entourage of the Janata Dal leaders neared Bulandshahr, police officials prevented them from proceeding further. No reason was given to them for the action, Mr Malik told newsmen here later.Mr Malik, who represents the Aligarh Parliamentary constituency, nevertheless managed to approach the outskirts of Aligarh, but a strong police posse posted there politely but firmly asked him not to enter the town.Mr Malik took strong exception to the Uttar Pradesh government allowing a Congress delegation to visit the town while denying him, the representative of the constituency, the right to meet his electorate.“This is a totally undemocratic act,” Mr Malik charged.The Janata Dal leader, who was accompanied by student leaders of the Aligarh Muslim university (AMU) and the youth leader, Mr Wasim Ahmed, said the people in the affected areas were virtually starving since essential commodities were in short supply. The state government' failed on this front also, Mr Malik alleged.Mr Malik said he was keen on setting up peace committees in the town “to help restore the confidence of the minorities,” but “my efforts have been thwarted by the insensitive state administration.”Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿TOLL MOUNTS TO 8 IN BARODAThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 24, 1969; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 11■The Times of India” Nerrs SerriedBARODA. September 23: The death-roll in Baroda mounted to eight today as the patrolling army and police personnel opened fire in two areas where mobs defied curfew restrictions and set aflame shops and a place of worship.The number of those injured has cone up to III in the day's sporadic incidc nls.Tension prevailed in the afternoon In the Yakutpura. fiatehpura, Wadi, Ma-chipect and Jeialpur areas and the suburbs.lire redeeming featuic was that dining non-curlcw hours, when people belonging to different communities mingled again for getting milk and daily necessities, not a single unto--ward incident was icportcd.A general improvement of the situation is visible in the city, but civil nnd army authorities are determined not to relax vigilance and patrolling until the end of the curfew at 7 a,m. tomorrow.	.SALUTARY EFFECTMr. Shivraj, secretary. P.W.D. deputed by the State Government to assess the damage and help district Authorities to normalise the situation, told “The limes of India5’ News Service that further relaxation of curfew during day hours might be considered from tomorrow but the dusk-to-dawn curfew would remain for four days ■ more.He said the arrest of anti-social elements, seizure of lethal weapons possessed illegally in the city and the ex-ceLlcnt co-operation from E. M. lr. platoons had had a salutary effect on ’ the Baroda situation which was now, under control.	:He complimented the .acting Col-1 lector, Mrs. Swamakantha Varuna. I whose prompt decisions and seeking1 the assistance of the army had nipped in the bud what looked like a major challenge to law and order.Large quantities of weapons and , inflammable material have been seized during daring raids on places of worship.Mr. Shivraj said the E.M.E., in collaboration with the city police, the S.R.P. and Central Reserves had helped bring a dangerous situation under control.The O.N.G.C. has set up a control room to keep in constant touch with its installations. A spokesman admitted that drilling operations had been affected by the riots.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Police firing in BarodaThe Times of India (J86J-current); Sep 30, 1985; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Police firing in BarodaBARODA, September 29 (PTI): The police fired one round in the air to disperse unruly mobs indulging in stone-throwing in the Sultanpura area on the Lehripura New Road here this evening.No one was injured in the firing.Except for this incident, the overall situation in the city which was rocked by large-scale violence on Friday, which left two killed and 10 injured, was peaceful, the police said.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Dr. Mookerjee’s AdviceThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jun 22, 1950; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 11Dr. Mookerjee’s AdviceTEZPUR, June 21:	Dr. ‘SyamaPrasad Mookerjee yesterday advised tlhe people not to indulge in internal strife which would make only the third party a gainer, while speaking at a public meeting. Indian Provinces, he said, were heterogeneous in nature and if people could not realise this fact,, the newly-won freedom of the country would be in danger.Mr. Rohini Kumar Chowdhury, who presided over the meeting, appealed to all to be sympathetic towards the refugees as it was a humanitarian problem and not a political one.—U.P.I.A society for the promotion of Indo-Pakistan friendship was formed at a meeting held here in Calcutta on Tuesday.Village IncidentCALCUTTA, June 21:	Forty-three persons were arrested by the West Bengal police in connection with an incident at Amghata, about six miles from Krishnagar (Nadia District), on Sunday last.A press note issued by the West Bengal Government'today stated that some members of the minority community were attacked by about 60 persons of Amghata and two neighbouring villages. Property worth Rs. 1,000 was looted..- A contingent of armed forces was rushed to the spot and the situation was quickly brought under control.—P.T.I.Bengal MigrationCALCUTTA, June 21: During the past 24 hours, 8,486 Hindus and 2,015 Muslims arrived in West Bengal from Eastern Pakistan by rail and 4,449 Hindus and 5,324 Muslims left, according to a West Bengal Government press note issued today. - -..... .... '	During the same period, the note adds, 90 Hindus and 46 Muslims arrived and 54 Hindus and 53 Muslims left by air.—P.T.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿9 killed as riots rock U. P. townThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Feb 2, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 19 killed as riots rock U.P. townThe Times of India News ServiceLUCKNOW, February 1.AT least nine people were /\killed in communal riots which broke out in the Khurja township of Bulandshahr districtiiAniAM^iua	■ 'jvoiviun^i	>	,Members 6f the two communities clashed near Alloserai Punjabian 1 Mohalla and the Khageshian locality i yesterday. The trouble initially began at the Qureshi Mohalla and later, the communal frenzy took over the entire township.	'According to police reports reaching here, the communal clashes in Khuija were the sequel to the murder of a resident of the Qureshi Mohalla ; on January 29.	jThe .rouble started when a group of armed hooligans started firing from Qureshi Mohalla. The group later indulged in large-scale arson and burnt down hutments in Alooserai and Punjabian Mohalla.	*Four persons were roasted alive as rioters set fire to hutments in Alooserai, after locking the huts from outside. Three members of a family were burnt alive.	|the police later launched a mqjor f offensive against rioters and sealed ; the sensitive areas. The rioters fired ' at policemen indiscriminately, injuring two constables seriously. These constables were taken to New Delhi for treatmentThe police offensive in Khageshian locality yielded results when troublemakers manufacturing crude bombs tried to escape but were surrounded by the policemen. A crude bomb, however, went off, killing five rioters on the spot the police report here said.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿PM for Bihar procession banThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 27, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1PATNA, Oct. 26 (PTI).THE Prime Minister, Mr Rajiv Gandhi, today directed the Bihar government to ban religious processions through sensitive areas and later left for the riot-torn city of Bhagalpur.The Prime Minister, who was reviewing the situation in the state with the chief minister, Mr S. N. Sinha and senior, officials at Raj Bhavari here, was understood to have expressed annoyance over thp fact that such a procession had been allowed at Bhagalpur on Tuesday despite the area being sensitive. The Union home minister, Mr Buta Singh was also present at the meeting.In the hour-long meeting, the Prime Minister expressed serious concern over the current situation in the state and enquired about the latest position in Sitamarhi, which too had been rocked by communal violence in the past few days.He was informed that nearly 200 people had so far been arrested at curfew-bound Bhagalpur. With the chief secretary, Mr A. U. Sharma and the director-general of police, Mr Arun Kumar Choudhury, camping at Bhaglpur Mr Gandhi was briefed about the situation by the additional chief secretary. Mr P. K. Mishra andthe home commissioner, Mr J. L. Arya.Earlier, Mr Gandhi accompanied by Mrs Sonia Gandhi, the Union ministers Mr Buta Singh and Mr M.L. Fotedar, the Bihar chief minister, Mr Sinha, former chief minister, Mr Bhagwat Jha Azad and the cabinet: secretary, Mr T. N. Seshan airdashed' to Patna on way to Bhagalpur as reports of continued communal disturbances reached Delhi.TOINS adds from Bhaglpur: Mr Gandhi was ghearaoed at the Tilka Manjhi crossings by irate people:' They were demanding the retention,of the transferred superintendent of police, Mr K. S. Diwedi. The crowd also shouted anti-Bhagwat Jha Azad, slogans.The toll in the riot has gone up to 63. This morning, seven members of the family of the town youth Congress president, Mr Parvez Ahmed, were hacked to death. Mr Ahmed is hiding somewhere in the town.UNI adds from New Delhi: The Bharatiya Janata Party today demanded the immediate dismissal of the Bihar government for the spate of communal violence in the state.Talking to reporters, the party secretary, Mr J. P. Mathur, noted Mr Gandhi’s visit to Bhaglpur to study the situation' and said, “We don’t, know what his reaction will be. He might shift the blame for the riots to someone else.”The events had proved Janata Dal president, Mr V. P. Singh’s charge right, Mr Mathur claimed.He held the state government responsible for the “serious riots” and demanded its dismissal.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Meerut lawyers boycott courtsThe Times of India (J86J-current); Sep 15, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 7Meerut lawyers boycott courtsMEERUT, September 14 (PT1):Lawyers in Meerut today boycotted courts, alleging that the chief minister, Mr Mulayam Singh Yadav, was interfering with the functioning of the judiciary and blocking the promotion chances of the Lucknow district judge, who had ordered unlocking of Ram Janambhoomi temple at Ayodhya.The Meerut bar association in a resolution parsed yesterday termed the chief minister’s action as direct interference in the functioning of the judiciary and an indirect threat to the three high court judges now hearing the Ram Janambhoomi-Babri Masjid case.The association also criticised the police here for the action on students on September 7 during the Meerut bandh.TN town tense after clashNEYVELI, Sept. 14 (PTI): A tense situation prevailed yesterday at Gingee town in Tamil Nadu’s South Arcot district, following a clash between two communities.All business establishments were closed yesterday and traffic was affected for some hours. One of the groups threw stones at business establishments owned by members of the other community. The police dispersed the crowd.The clash reportedly followed an attack on Wednesday on a person1 belonging to a particular community by members of another community due to previous enmity.The superintendent of police, Vil-lupuram police district, Mr Jaganathan, has convened a meeting of both groups. Police pickets have been posted at Gingee.Notices to TN govt, over Jaya pleaNEW DELHI, Sept. 14 (UNI): The supreme court today issued notices to the Tamil Nadu government and others on a contempt petition filed by the AIADMK leader, Ms Jayalalitha, regarding the dispute over the party headquarters building at Lloyds road in Madras city.	''The notices, also issued to the rebel party leaders, K.K.S.S.R. Ramachan-dran and Mr S. Thirunavu Kkarasu, are returnable within two weeks. Mr Justice S. Ranganathan, Mr Justice K.N. Saikia . and Mr Justice Yayachandra Reddy, before whom the petition came up for direction, posted the case for hearing on October 5.Pending hearing of the petition, the judges directed that possession of the building should not be given to either party. The building should remain with sub-divisional executive magistrate, they said.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Patrolling intensified in Aurangabad: Distric newsOur CorrespondentThe Times of India (1861-current); Jan 3, 1983; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 5Misty morning meditation at Panchganga, Kolhapur. - Picture by S. B. Takalkar.Patrolling intensified in AurangabadBy Our CorrespondentAURANGABAD. January 2.A TEA shop in the heart of the city was set on fire early this morning and stray incidents of stone-throwing were reported last night.While an uneasy calm prevails in the city, the police have banned the assembly of five or more persons and have intensified patrolling.Additional SRP forces were deployed at trouble-prone areas of rhe city after an idol was disfigured in the Shahganj locality yesterday. While shopkeepers had downed their shutters in the wake of the incident, all shops remained open today.' The police have so far arrested 25 people in connection with the attack on a cloth merchant a few days ago.KolhapurSangli district, have been arrested for taking out a otorcha to the tehsildar’s office on Saturday to present a memorandum demanding cancellation of the history text-book in Urdu for the eighth standard.The morcha was stopped by the police at Gandhi Chowk. While the other participants were released unconditionally, the nine arrested were released later on bail, reports our correspondent.NasikJAIN ASHRAM: A Jain Tyagi ashram has been opened at the Jain pilgrimage centre at Mangi Tungi in Baglan taluka. It will provide shelter to Jain sadhus and tyagis who are unable to continue their pilgrimages due to old age or illness, reports our correspondent.DRIVERS HELD: The Nasik police„	r , have arrested the drivers and cleanersSTIR WITHDRAWN: The Koiha- Gf two trucks who were attempting to pur district Milk Federation employees sell coal worth Rs. 10,000 that thev have withdrawn their agitation follow- were supposed to deliver to a Bom-ing successful negotiations between the {jay firm,management and representatives of The two trucks have been impound-the employees’ union, reports our cor- ed and the four accused remanded to respondent.	judicial custody till January 4, reportsWhile the management has accepted our correspondent, the revised pay-scales demanded by the union, it has promised to look into the other demands pertaining to promotions and service conditions.ALUMINA PROJECT: A delegation of the Kolhapur Alumina IndustriesDistrict newsAssociation will leave for New Delhi soon to try and convince the secretary of the industries department of the feasibility of setting up an alumina project at ShalTtrfrsii in the district.The delegation, which will be led by Mr. Ratnappa Kumbhar, former minister and president of the association, will also call on the Union ministers ior planning and industry, reports our correspondent.AkolaTAX INCREASE:	Congress a)workers who marched to the Akola collectorate on Saturday protesting against the increase in property tax by the municipal council, were assured by the minister in charge of the district and minister of state for urban development, Mr. Banwarilal Purohit, that he would take up the matter with the concerned officials, reports our correspondent.SangliTEXT-BOOK ROW: Nine workers of the. Hindu Sabha at Islampur, inReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Arson, looting in Amreli Army outThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 30, 1969; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1“The Times of India” News ServiceRAJKOT, September 29.rPHREE incidents of arson and looting were reported from Amreli today.According to UNI, the Army has been called out. ’The district magistrate has declared Section 144 in the town. The situation is reported to be under control.	.. UNI adds: A lew shops and houses were set on lire in the afternoon. Sonic shops were looted after a stonethrowing incident.	'Baroda: Schools and colleges here reopened on Monday. Mills mid factories ran two shifts with full complements. The city bus service abo resumed. Most cinema houses displayed ‘.’house full” boards.Curfew will, however, continue in the city front S p.m. on Tuesday to 5 a.m. on Wednesday.Thursday, the Mahatma's birth anniversary, if peace continued in the city.The religious leaders of different communities, after it tour of the riot-stricken areas, urged Mr. Desai to end his fast as normalcy had been restored in the cily. Mr. Desai pointed out that schools and colleges had not yet reopened.Later, Mr. Desai told Bnvtsltankar Maharaj, Sarvodaya leader. that he would waif at least till tomorrow evening before taking a decision. The Sarvodaya leader, who was accompanied by Mr. Prabhudas Palwari, however, felt that Mr. Desai would end his fasl on Wednesday morning.P.T.I. adds: Mr. Desai has losl about five kilos. .	.No complications weic reported in his general condition.fifty Muslims of the city, led by Mr. Lalbhai Kundiwala. MLA, called on Mr. Desai and urged him to give up the fastlarge number of his followers and friends had prevailed upon him to end his ordeal.The Chief. Minister. Mr. Hitchdra Desai, the Public Works Minister, Mr. Babubhai Patel, and the Deputy Home Minislei, Mr. Jniram Patel, called on Mi. Yagnik at his residence ill the morning. Mr. Desai and his colleagues, were said to have assured Mr. Yagnik that a high-level inquiry would he held into the disturbances.Mr. Vagnik expressed satisfaction at the restoration of normalcy in the city and said the immediate major work now was to rehabilitatethose alfcctcd by the riots.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿15 People InjuredThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 15, 1959; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 715	People InjuredGAYA, October 13: Fifteen people including three policemen, were injured in: a clash in the village of Kusaha, in Gaya District, yesterday evening, according' to an official report received here today.The trouble is reported to have started when a : crowd attacked a Dasara procession with brick-bats and the processionists later retaliated. Several houses were, set on fire following this incident.The District Magistrate .and the Superintendent of Police, of Gaya rushed to the village and armed police were posted there as a precautionary measure.—P.T.I.	-Popularising History“The Times of India” News Service NEW DELHI, October 14: The Delhi Historical Society’s campaign to “popularise Indian history among the educated public” tvas initiated here today by Dr. T. Roy - Ghowdhury, Reader in Econoniic History of Delhi University, with a talk on “India through Greek Eyes.”Dr. Roy Chowdhury, who was delivering the first talk in the “India Through Foreign Eyes” series, said that while valuable research had been done on various facets of Indian history, particularly during' the last 50 years, the results of this research had not been presented in a manner likely to appeal to the general reader.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Army may take charge of MeerutThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); May 22, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1The Times of India News ServiceLUCKNOW, May 21.HIGH-level consultations arc understood to have started for handing over the control of Meerut district to the army, as the deployment of troops and para-military forces has failed to deter the rioters who continued to attack police parties ana indulge in acts o arson even in the curfew-fret areas.The Delhi-Uttar Pradesl boundary was sealed as rhobs in dulged in violence last night anc today. The authorities extendec . curfew to new areas as the rioting spread.The areas falling under the jurisdiction of the .Sadar Bazar and Lalkurti police stations have been brought under curfew mainly because of their proximity to the army sub-area headquarters.	.	.The rioters set fire lo about a dozen shops in the predominantly majority community posh market area on P. L. Sharma road. Mobs also indulged in arson and stone-throwing on the Wester Kutchery road, hardly two furlongs away from the district police headquarters near the collcctorate. Similar incidents occurred at the Mawana bus stand adjacent to the Civil Lines police station. There were pitched battled between mobs al Soiiganj and at some other points near the Sadar Bazar police station.With the death of three persons in curfew-bound Hashimpura locality last night and recovery of a few more bodies, the death roll in Meerut city disturbances since Monday night rose to 39. according to reports reaching the government headquarters here.The district magistrate in his report to the government confirmed the death of only 26 persons, though unofficially the loll was stated to be over 70.The police resorted to firing on a mob at Hashimpura last night resulting in the death of two persons. A shot fired from inside a place of worship forced the police to be on the defensive.The leader of the opposition, Mr Satyapal Sing Yadav, criticised the government for the deteriorating situation in Meerut and said the chief minister. Mr Vir Bahadur Singh.Mr Virshould resign on moral grounds.Mr Yadav said at a press conference that the loll in the disturbances was much more than officially stated. He said the chief minister should own the responsibility for his government’s failure to take adequate precautionary measures and resign as was done by Mr Vishwanath Pratap Singh who had quit as chief minister in the wake of massdouble-barrel gun. two country-made rifles and a khukri” were seized by the police in the Hashimpura area.The district magistrate said the situation in the city would be reviewed tomorrow morning.RAJIV FOR MEERUT (TOINS): The Prime Minister, Mr Rajiv Gandhi, is likely to visit Meerut tomorrow.He indicated this while talking to correspondents at Mufti Mohammad Saycd's residence in Delhi where he had gone for dinner.Mr Gandhi had mentioned that he would go to Meerut after a few days. The Mufti, however, impressed upon him the need to go as early as possible.Mr Gandhi then agreed and said he mighi go there tomorrow itself and visit the riot-affected areas.CURFEW RELAXED (TOINS from New Delhi): No untoward incident was reported during the four-hour curfew relaxation in the riot-affected walled city areas today.Curfew was imposed on Tuesday night following violent clashes inwhich two persons were killed and several others injured.The police said that patrolling was continuing and armed pickets stationed at all sensitive ppints. Senior police officials supervised the arrangements. The lieut-governor of Delhi, Mr H. L. Kapur also visited the riot-, affected areas. ,	1A police spokesman said that so far 112 people, including those who had reportedly indulged in rumourmongering, had been arrested. Several miscreants who had indulged in arstjn had been identified and efforts were being made to trace them.The spokesman said that during the housc-to-house searches carried out after the rioting,' a large quantity of brickbats and empty bottles were seized.	ITOLL RISES TO 6 (PTI from Bharuch): The death roll in the'disturbances which rocked Bharuch.town • in south Gujarat on Monday, today, rose to six with one more personsuccumbing to stab wounds at a hospital in Baroda.In view of the continued improvement in the situation, the authorities relaxed the curfew for three hours this morning.The Banaskantha district magistrate, Mr H. K. Das, has promulgated orders banning lethal weapons in Palanpur town in north Gujarat. Inflammatory speeches or sloganeering likely to disturb the peace are also banned in the trouble-prone town where curfew was clamped following clashes this week.Licenced firearm holders have been asked to deposit their weapons with the police.CONCERN IN PAKISTAN (TOINS from Islamabad): The series of communal riots in different parts of India in the past few d^ys has caused considerable concern here. Several Pakistani newspapers have reported the incidents prominently and some have even given editorial comments.Officially the Pakistan government has scrupulously refrained from ex-pressing obvious concern because of the Indian government’s ‘susceptibilities in the matter. Nonetheless it would be unrealistic to expect the Pakistanis to remain unmoved.In an editorial, “The Frontier Post,” said today that it was hard to see how the Babri mosque dispute could ever get resolved. “If India’s 308 million Hindus firmly believe tne place to be what they say it is (the birthplace of Lord Rama), can anything make them yield ground, seeing that the era of the Moghuls can never return? Even if the Muslims are offered a prime site for a much larger mosque in return, will they stand for a god’s house becoming a place of idol worship?” it asked.Saying that the religious leaders of the two communities would make sure that no solution was reached, “The Frontier Post” suggested that the place be closed to both the communities “for as long as it takes them to realise that they might not be pleasing god or Rama by dying or killing in this quarrel”.A burnt bus (left) and a petrol pump damaged at Hapur Road, Meerut, during the recent riots (Another picture on Pane 9).killings by dacoits a few years ago.Wiih the situation worsening today, the state director general of police, Mr B. S. Bhatnagar. and other senior police officials rushed to Meerut for an on-the-spot assessment of the situation, reports PTI.Five more PAC companies have been deployed in addition to the 28 PAC and seven CRPF companies already engaged in maintaining law and order. Five army battalions are also assisting the administration.Mr Bhatnagar took stock of the situation and gave specific instructions to the police and parg-military forces to come down heavily on the troublemakers and ensure restoration of peace and order at all costs.Dpring the house-to-house searches conducted last night and today, aReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Bill to reduce ceiling on land holdingsThe Times of India (J86J-current); Mar 29, 1970; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9Bill to reduce ceiling on land holdings“The Times of India” News ServiceMADRAS, March 28: A Bill to give effect to the Government’s decision to reduce the ceiling on land holdings by half would be introduced shortly, the Finance Minister, Mr, K. A. Mathia-lagan, told the Tamil Nadu Assembly today.He said a State Government official had gone to Delhi with the dtafl ot the Bill.‘Budget lacking in socialistic aims’“The Times of India” News Service ' JAIPUR, March 28: Several members of the Vidhan Sabha today criticised the budget for lacking in socialistic objectives.”Some of them pointed out that the Government had not initiated steps to bridge the gulf between the poor and the rich.Normalcy in MP towns“The Times of India” News Service..BHOPAL, March 28: Lour towns, which were affected by communal trouble yesterday, have returned to normal. according to official sources.The affected places were Bhopal. Indore, Dawas and Strong.Indore: The situation in the three affected localities of Junapitha, Bar-wali Chowki and Chipa Bakhal where communal trouble flared up yesterday Rangpanchami Day marking the close of the five-day Holi celebrations in the city—was officially reported ;o be “quite normal” this morning.— P.T.l.The biggest British garrison east of Suez at Terendak Camp (Malacca) was formally handed over to Malaysia on Saturday.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿RS. 11-CRORE RIVER VALLEY PROJECTThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jun 28, 1950; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 11RS. 11-CRORE RIVER VALLEY PROJECT Kashmir SchemeFrom O'vn CorrespondentSRINAGAR, June 27: A river valley project, known as the Sindh Valley Project, with the highest priority In the whole of India, is in Kashmir.A dam Is being- constructed near Ganderbal town, 11 miles from here, and estimated to cost Rs. 11 crores, it has been undertaken by. Kashmir State Government. It is stated that this project has higher priority than the Bhakra dam scheme. Work on the Siridh project is proceeding slowly and it is not likely that work on Bhakra will be held up. Over 15,000 workers are at present employed in the Sindh project which is expected to be completed In three years. Besides providing electricity for cottage industries of the State, this project will also afford irrigation facilities to the peasants.Looting Incident : 3 HurtCALCUTTA, June 27:	A WestBengal Government press note stated today that a refugee mob from the neighbouring areas looted the properties of some Muslims of Krishna-gar, a village in Ranaghat Union, in Nadia District, on June 18. Three Muslims received slight . injuries. The police rushed to the spot and the situation was brought under control. Eight arrests have been made so far.—P.T.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Army alerted in riot-hit HyderabadThe Times of India (1861-current); Nov 25, 1979; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1HYDERABAD, November 24 (PTI).THE'army' has been alerted in view of the continued disturbances in Hyderabad city and some adjoining areas which have been placed under curfew to be in force till 0700 hours tomorrow.Rioting, looting, , arson and stabbihgs, which began yesterday when one group refused to observe a hartal in protest against.. the outrage on the Grand Mosque in Mecca, continued today despite: the curfew and shoot-at-sight orders.While top officers of the Andhra sub-area of the army remained in close touch with the local authorities,: a joint control room' has been set up at the police headquarters where an army captain is present. .	.“The situation is well under control though it has to be watched still,” the director general of police, Mr. M. V. Narayana Rao, told pressmen tonight.Mr. Rao said 750 .people had been rounded up since yesterday. There were signs of rapid improvement' today with only a few sporadic incidents of arson and “I expect the, situa. tion to improve further,” he said.He said whenever there were civil disturbances of this sort, .the army was apprised of the situatidh so that when called in they were not1 taken by surprise.	/•;The police today fired on. a mob which, attacked a place of worship. Ninety-one people were rounded up on the .spot. In addition to 40 platoons, iiicluding 15 of the CRP drafted to help the local police, another six companies of the CRP Were ccm-mg here tomorrow from Nagpur.Damage to property in the. disturbed areas. was estimated at Rs. 5C lakhs.	.The second firing today was bjthe Central Reserve Police on a mob which threw stones on the CRPF, injuring a deputy superintendent the CRPF who was removing roadblocks. None was injured in the firing.Cases of arson were reported to-' day from Philkhana, Aliabad, Gowji-pura and Koti also. . ■Eighteen people were injured in today’s incidents, bringing the total hospitalised to 39. Another 73 injured mostly in stone-throwing were treated as .out patients. \The fire brigade attended to nine calls today. 'The situation was reviewed at a meeting of officials at the secretariat and later at the residence of the chief minister. Besides :' him, the home minister and the minister for infonnation were also present.Meanwhile, the state council of the Communist Party of India urged the government to take stern steps to restore peace in the troubled city. It demanded that the chief minister convene an all-party meeting to consider steps for restoration of peace. .The state Lofc Dal secretary, Mr. T. Satyanarayana, accused the government of failure to maintain law and order and demanded the resignation of the Chenna Reddy ministry.The associations dealing in cloth and yam, jewellery, automobile parts, goods transport, . grain and seeds, kirana general and fancy goods, and chemists and druggists have decided to observe bandh on November 26 in. protest against yesterday’s incidents in the old city. , ■	.Announcing this’ in a press statement, Mr. Banarasilal Gupta, /chair-man, trade and commerce committee \of Andhra Pradiesh Federation of r Chambers, of Commerce and Indus-', try, said the havoc wrought yesterday in the old city was unprecedented and the. attacks on shops, by anti-social' elements were deplorable./ He said had effective police action been taken in the beginning, the. situation would not have taken Such a serious turn.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Tear-Gas Used On Junagadh MobThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jul 14, 1963; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Tear-Gas Used On Junagadh Mob“Ihe limes of India?’ News ServiceJUNAGADH. July 13.HTTHE police used tear-gas to disperse a crowd at Panchahatdi Chowk at noon today, The hartal which was launched yesterday following an alleged criminal attempt on a young girl by two youths of another community continued today.One man was killed and five people were injured in slabbing yesterday.Shoos and schools arc. still closed.Seven persons have been held.\n order under Section M4 of the ( i. P.( . valid up to July 30 has been issued. I he atmosphere is tense.Leader HeldIM'.I. adds: The police have ai-tcstetl a dozen people including Mr. Suryakant Acharya, a Jan Sangh leader.A pi ess note issued tonight at Ahmcdabad claimed that Junagadh had returned to normalcy.I he Collector appealed to the people-today to maintain peace.lop police and civilian oflicials aic helping in ic-noring older.In Ahmcdahad the-Police (. unimo-sionei has banned the carryin» ol weapons lor |y days from today.Mr. Hanpiasad Tadya. sccicu'y ol :he (itiiaral unit of the Jan Sangh. demanded today ilia: the iwo Jan Sangh vnrkeis who had been ariesiedin Junagadh should be released.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Shoot-at-sight orders in MeerutThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); May 21, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1inMeerutThe Times of India News ServiceLUCKNOW, May 20.OHOOT-at-sight orders were enforced in riot-hit Meerut today and army jawans along with the pojice and paramilitary forces strictly implemented curfew restrictions.Our Meerut correspondent reports that firing, arson and looting continued for the third day today. 'The district magistrate, Mr R. S. Kaushik, told newsmen that 20 people were killed, in the communal riots which started on the night of May 18. However, unofficial sources put the death roll at over 70.Despite the heavy police, TAC and CRPF patrolling in the curfew-bound areas, violence spread to several new areas’ today. At least six more bodies were recovered from the affected areas, according to an official source.The authorities have formed a number of police parties to search for firearms and trouble-makers in houses and even in places of worship.Army men were deployed on Pilokhari road, Chhatta road, Hapur road and Zaid Bagh in the affected areas. They staged a flag march again today in the curfew-bound areas. An army battalion was kept as reserve.The principal home secretary, Mr Mata Prasad, told reporters here this evening that patrolling was intensified in Meerut with additional police reinforcements. Armed pickets were posted at a number of sensitive points in the city. He said the situation there was tense but fully under control.Mr Prasad said only three people were killed in police firing and the rest pf the victims1 were stabbed to death.In all, 290 people have so far been arrested in the wake of the rioting which necessitated imposition of curfew since 6 a.ny. yesterday for an indefinite period in the affected areas.The Union minister for urban development, Mrs Mohsina Kidwai, who represents Meerut in the Lok Sabha, has instructed the district administration to deal firmly with anti-social elements, reports' PTI.The Uttar Pradesh chief minister, Mr Vir Bahadur Singh, accompanied by the state home minister, Mr Gopi Nath Dixit, and senior district and army officers today again went round the troubled localities.FLAG MARCH (tOlNS from New Delhi): The army and the Central Reserve Police force staged a flag march this morning in the curfcw-bound areas of the walled city, where two men died and several others were hurt in last night’s communal violence.The police commissioner, Mr Ved Marwah, has clamped prohibitory orders on the areas and on carrying ofarms throughout the capital for the next five days. The curfew will continue until the situation is back to normal.	;The police carried out house-tb-house searches in the old city during the night and early this morning arid arrested 52 people.	:.A police spokesman said that they were considering the imposition jof “collective fines” to deter residents pf the old city resorting to rumourmongering and violence. The policehave taken a “serious view” of the recurring communal violence at Chandni . Chowk and neighbouring areas and ordered an “immediate crackdown” on mischief-makers, he said.Last night’s violence began with ;a minor accident at Sarak involving a motorcycle and a bicycle. A woman on the pillion of the motor-cycle was allegedly teased by the cyclist and the incident snowballed into full-scale rkft-ing.	~;The police fired at least 16 rounds and burst tear-gas shells. Twenty-three people were admitted to hospitals aftfer the violence.The lieut-govemor, Mr K. L Kapur, and the police commissioner visited the walled city again this morning. After his visit, Mr Kapur announced an ex-gratia compensation of iSs.20,000	to the next of kin of those who died in the violence. A sum Rs. 2,500 each would also be given to the seriously wounded.	;SITUATION REVIEWED (TOINS): The situation in Meerit following the communal riots that rocked the western UP town was^fe-viewed by the home minister, MrBljta Singh, today afterthe minister of state, Mr P. Chidambaram, gave him a report on his visit to the affected areasyesterday.	...He discussed the anti-riot measures taken in the town with the local law-enforcing authorities.	7It was stated that the Centre was. keeping a close watch on the situation, Ahmedabad (PTI): The indefinite curfew clamped on Bharuch town in south Gujarat on Monday, following, riots which left five dead, was relaxed for three hours from 10.30 a.m. today.No incident has been reported front the town since yesterday.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿1 dead, 3 hurt in firing in AhmedabadThe Times of India (J86J-current); Mar 9, 1971; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 11 dead, 3 hurt in firing in Ahmedabad■“The Times of India” News Service AHMEDABAD, March 8.ONE person was killed and'thiee received bullet injuries. when the police fired 12 rounds at Kubernagar, in Ahmedabad, late last night.	,The police opened fire in self-defence when a violent armed crowd attacked them while they were trying to control a fight between two groups of people belonging to the same community.The police recovered two bloodstained swords from the site of the clash which was strewn with brickbats and pieces of aerated water bottles.- The crowd, which was armed with swords pipes and a variety of missiles, attacked the policemen with brick-bats and aerated water bottles.Shops looted in Junagadh hartalJUNAGADH. March 8: Three shops in the town were broken open'.and looLed this morning. An attempt to set tire to a.dargah was foiled by the timely arrival of the police. The SRP, the honteguards and the police were patrolling the town which, observed a hartal today in protest against the alleged kidnapping ol a married woman .on February 27.	.Seventeen people have been arrested so far.Orders under Section 144 Cr. P.C. were being promulgated in the town.Permission to take out the Mohar-rum tajia processions was not granted.—P.T.l.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Sec. 144 In KasargodeThe Times of India (J86J-current); Oct 31, 1960; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 8Sec. 144 In KasargodeCALICUT. October 30: The Executive First Class Magistrate of Kasargode today banned under Section 144,Cr.P.C., processions and meetings at Mangalpadi in the Kasargode subdivision of Cannanore District for seven days from today.The Collector of Cannanore, in a press note issued tonight, stated that while a bhajan procession which was taken out as per mutual arrangement between two communities of Mangalpadi was returning to Mangalpadi after reaching the Shyria temple,“some few cases of stone-throwing occurred suddenly” and “owing to effective police arrangements, the situation was well kept under control.The press note added that no one was injured, the situation was peaceful and that the prohibitory order under Section 144 Cr.P.C., had been promulgated for seven days to avoid further trouble.”-—P.T.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿6 rioters hurt in firing at MahimOur Staff ReportersThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 4, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1By Our Staff ReportersBOMBAY, October 3.SIX persons were injured when the police opened fire in different parts of Mahim late tonight, in attempts to quell a riotous stone-throwing mob.t here were reports of firing in the Fishermen’s Colony area and in the vicinity of Mahim police station as well as Kapad Bazaar, later tonight According to the police, around 11 p.m., three rounds were fired at Kapad Bazaar to disperse the mob, whose scuffling left 25 people injured. A number of tear-gas shells were also burst, sources Said.The enraged crowd then swarmed towards the Mahim police station and surrounded it. The policemen inside were forced to barricade the doors against it.The state reserve police immediately rushed to the spot and surrounded the station. Three platoons had earlier been stationed in the area.According to details pieced together from various sources, a group of 15 lorries returning from an Id-e-Milad procession was stoned at Mahim junction and near a mosque at around 9.45 p.m.Eye-witnesses said the stones thrown at the lorries appeared tohave come from the nearby Fishermen’s Colony. This apparently triggered retaliation from the lorries’ occupants and a heavy exchange of stones and soda bottles ensued.The trouble then spread to the adjoining areas and even to the vicinity of the Bada mosque at Ban-dra junction, at around 11.15 p.m. Swords were allegedly used in the attack, eyewitnesses aver. As many as 15 people with sword injuries had to be taken to Bhabha Hospital where two were admitted.Late at night, nearly 1,000 people had gathered in the Mahim-Bandra area, and top police officials were maintaining a vigil. Contingents of the state reserve police were rushed to the spot. The commissioner of police, Mr S. Ramamurthi, at the scene of the disturbances, said, “The situation is under control. My men are on the job.”While the riots on the main road had been brought under control, sporadic incidents of violence were reported from the Bandra by-lanes.Of the 25 injured, the majority were from Bandra, and three were from Mahim. Among them were four women. All were reported to have sword injuries on the arms and legs.According to unconfirmed reports,(Continued on page 3)Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Army alerted in RajouriThe Times of India (J86J-current); Dec 14, 1984; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1Army alerted in RajouriJAMMU, December 13 (UNI) : Army was asked to stand by as Border Security Force continued to patrol the curfew-bound border town of Rajouri where one person succumbed this morning to Injuries received in a clash between two groups yesterday.The deputy commissioner of police, Rajouri, Mr. Sharma, told UNI that ten people had been arrested in the case.Asked when the curfew would be relaxed, Mr. Sharma said the situation would be reviewed tomorrow after which a decision would be taken.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Manipur clashes not communalPEASUN SONWALKAThe Times of India (1861-current); May 8, 1993; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9By FEASUN SONWALKA The Times of India News ServNEW DELHI, May 7, ~PHE chemistry of the ‘com-1 munaT clashes that rocked Ma-lipur this week appears to be as complex as the region’s mix of ithnicity, insurgency, a fractured polity and the shifting quicksands state politics. It will be some time before the truth is out about how a stray altercation snowballed into a conflagration, but it is clear that the clashes were not communal.There are several strands to the bloody bundle of violence that is bound to stand out as a sore thumb in a state hitherto free of communal clashes. For one, the majority Meiteis and the Manipuri Muslims have been living in perfect harmony since ages, particularly when Muslims were brought in from neighbouring Cachar district of Assam and Bengal province as labour in the early eighteenth century in the then prineely state of Manipur.According to several versions, the clashes were certainly not communal even though most of the victims belonged to the minority community. Intense rumourmongering that followed a minor clash over a deal for arms appears to have made members of the minority community working as labourers and rickshaw-pullers easy targets. The situation has clearly been worsened due to the lack of prompt response from the state administration.“There is no real divide between the Meiteis and the Muslims in the Imphal valley. The killings have not taken place because of religion, but a latent element of hatred has been evident for quite some time. The scars of the clashes will leave a bad imprint, and will lead to more trouble. Due to the prevalent sense of drift in the government, it will not be a surprise if the next clash is between the tribals and the Meiteis”, said a bitter Mr R. K. Jaichandra Singh, former chief minister.Coming down heavily on the state government for the perceived ‘vacuum’ in administration and failure to impose the rule of law, he is also critical of the “total neglect and indifference” of Manipur by the country’s establishment. Speaking to this correspondent here, he said if clashes of such dimensions had taken place in mainland India, the concern and uproar in Parliament would have been much greater than that evident over the clashes in Manipur.A senior official in the Union home ministry said several factors were responsible for the clashes, including ethnic, religious and economic. Some north-east circles blame the recent attempts to start the revivalist movement in the state for the fair measure of anti-minoritism in the valley districts. Mention is made in this connection of an organisation started by Mr N. Biseswar, an ex-insurgent leader ol the outlawed People’s Liberation Army (PLA).Sometime ago, the organisation, called ‘Poramlan Apunba', had taken steps to build a temple at Chengei Ching near Lilong village (also the scene of the recent clashes), which was resisted by the minority community, which' claimed the site of the temple as its burial ground. The organisation’s efforts were reportedly abandoned following the ‘intervention’ by Bangladesh which threatened to drive out the PLA insurgents taking refuge in the country if Mr Biseswar continued with the move.Significantly, the newly-formed People’s Republican Army (PRA), which is believed to be involved in the recent clashes, came into existence with the avowed objective of countering the PLA. It is thus not surprising that the Revolutionary People’s Front, the political wing of the PLA, has come out with a pamphlet in Imphal vowing to take action against those responsible for the clashes. The ‘task’ has been given to PLA ‘unit one’, it has stated.According to Mr Jaichandra Singh, administration of the sensitive border state had been gripped by an acute sense of drift ever since Mr R. K. Ranbir Singh formed the government after the January 1990 elections. He claimed the situation worsened under the chief ministership of Mr R. K. Dorendra Singh, with several elements in the government maintaining links with the underground, and indeed encouraging its activities.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿BROKEN RICE EXPORTS: M. P. SEEKS CENTRAL PERMISSION THE TIMES OF INDIAThe Times of India (J86J-current); Sep 26, 1961; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 7BROKEN RICE EXPORTSM. P. Seeks Central PermissionThe Times of India” News ServiceBHOPAL, September 25: The Government of Madhya Pradesh has sought the permission of the Union Government to export 9,000 tons of broken rice to Bihar. West Bengal.Mysore and Kerala.The Food Minister (Mr. A. Q.Siddique, told the State Vidhan Sabha today in reply to a calling attention motion by Mr. Ramkumar Agarwal that since consumption of broken rice was negligible in the State, last year an aggregate of 19,850 tons was exported to West Bengal and Bombay.The Minister said that since the lifting of mill-producqd broken rice had not been satisfactory the State Government had issued instructions for the export of 4,000 tons to West Bengal and Bihar. Another 5,000 tons were proposed to be exported to Bihar, West Bengal. Mysore and Kerala.COMMUNAL CLASHThe Deputy Home Minister, Mr.Narsinghrao Dikshit, earlier told the House that 15 persons were injured, four of them seriously, in a communal clash on September 21 in Chhatar village in Udaipur District on the occasion of the Dol Gyaras festival,He was speaking on an adjournment motion- tabled by Mr. V. S.Pradhan, Hindu Mahasabha. Mr.Dikshit said on September 22 that there was a hartal in Udaipur. The situation was now under control. The police had arrested 17 persons and were making investigations.The Speaker, Mr. Kunjilal Dube, disallowed the motion after hearing the Government statement.See Page 11Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿7 KILLED IN GULBARGAThe Times of India (J86J-current); Aug 28, 1954; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 17 KILLED IN GOLBARGAReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿6 die in Bihar town riotOur Special CorrespondentThe Times of India (1861-current); May 2, 1981; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1By Our Special! Correspondent PATNA, May 1.AT least six people, including three women and. one child, were killed, half a dozen others injured and three shops were set ablaze as rioting broke out in Biharsharif last night following a brawl at a country liquor shop involving members of two communities.While two persons were stabbed to death outside the liquor shop yesterday, three women and a child were found dead in the same locality this afternoon.	-According to official sources, the situation in Biharsharif is very very tense. BSF and CRP contingents have been rushed to the riot-prone town.Unofficial sources say the toll was heavier. Several buses passing through the town were stopped and stoned.The authorities have imposed an indefinite curfew in Biharsharif and sounded an alert in sensitive areas ail over Bihar. More than 70 people belonging to both communities have been taken into custody. Preventive arrests have been ordered in other, areas also.The situation in Biharsharif is officially described as “under control but tense.” A top level police source said there were reports of violence :n neighbouring areas, but no official confirmation had been received. Trouble-prone areas like Ranchi and Jamshedpur were reportedly “quiet.” ,The DI j (central range), the commissioner of Patna division and other senior officials are camping in Bihar-sharit to deal with the situation. According to unofficial reports, the number of casualties in the strife-torn town was high.The chief secretary, Mr. P. p. Nay-yar, said the trouble started at a toddy shop yesterady evening when two apparently drunken youths quarrelled. As they belonged to two different communities, fighting between them took a communal colour. Fo'lowing this, there was more violence in the town and three shops were set on fire.After watching the situation at night, the government decided to impose arts indefinite curfew at 5 a.m. today. Mr. Nayyar said the curfew would be lifted tomorrow if the situation improved. Since the government did not want to take any chances, preventive measures were being Taken.The ' discovery of a good wagon loaded with bombs, officially described as of “highly explosive nature” near Biharsharif some days ago has heightened apprehensions about violence. But so far. detectives have not been able to say definitely that the wagon with bombs had anything to do with the current violence.Inquiries reveal that the wagon, packed like sardines with bombs of a lethal nature, was found with its seals broken at the Biharsharif railway station on April 10.RAILWAYS PUZZLEDAfter _ routine inquiries, the railway authorities reportedly sent the wagon to Danapur station, presumably under the impression that it belonged to the army units stationed there. When the cantonment authorities were contacted, they said the wagon did not belong to them.However, the area commander of Danapur, reportedly sent an explosives expert _ to examine the bombs. This Stpert'HfoHnrt the railway authorities that the bombs were of a highly explosive nature.	6 JBut the Danapur cantonment autho-wannnC°U ? not. do ^ything about the TOgon unless they were officially asked ^to do so by the defence ministry.wlwP.0rte? y feeling at a loss as to «nat to do with the wagon with the dangerous consignment, the railway authorities yesterday informed the Danapur sub-divisional officer, Mr. M.A* ibrahimi.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Spurt of communal riots in RajasthanThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jun 4, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of Indiapg. 16Spurt of communal riots in Rajasthani:The Times of India News ServiceJAIPUR, June 3.THERE has been a sudden spurt in communal violence in the state.* While cuirfew continues in Tonk and Sirohi districts, tension persists in Beegod and Makrana which were the scene of communal clashes recently.On Thursday tension prevailed even in Jaipur where a member of a particular community was killed after a dispute. But the government does not believe these are pre-planned.The state government has sent directives to the district collector* and superintendents of police to take precautionary measures against the recurrence of such incidents.The state home secretary, Mr R. Ramakrishna, has ruled out any definite design in these incidents even as he contended that these were stray incidents of law and order which had been blown into cases of communal violence.In Sirohi district, communal peace has been disturbed for the secondume during the past tew months. Earlier, violence broke out--in Swarupgaqj area where four cases, of rioting were registered. Fresh violence broke out in Jawal Village .on Thursday where two penons were killed and . 20 others, including 4wo women, injured. It followed an indent of eve-teasing.	--Tonk city was rocked by violence as a youth was killed, again overthe issue of eve-teasing. Curfew continues in some parts of the city while the police took out a flag march yesterday. In Beegod and Makrana it was, however, religious fervour which flared up to take the shape'of communal violence. Property worth crores of rupees was destroyed in Makrana, whereas in Beegod a complete bandh was observed by shopkeepers for two months to protest against the alleged police inacticm'in apprehending the culprits. f According to the police, mule there was nO apparent cause for the sudden increase in the numbef'.ibf communal incidents, it cannot-be denied that political parties hiVe been trying to make capital of-the troubled' situation because of the general elections drawing closer.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿CO-EXISTENCE AMONG GODS TOOThe Times of India (J86J-current); May 5, 1957; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1NAGPUR, May 4: Lord Shiva and Lord Buddha will * co-exist for at least a year in the same temple fat the Sadar area of Nagpur.Members of the Scheduled Caste who embraced Buddhism last year have decided to instal an idol of Lord Buddha in the Shiva temple which was their place of worship till their change of faith. The temple, however, has been renamed “Buddha Mandir.”Hie idol will be on May 13, Buddha Jayanti Day.The neo-Buddhists, at a meeting held early this week, decided not to disturb the idol of Lord Shiva for one year though they wptfd worship Lord Buddha in the same temnls^-P.T.L72-Hour Curfew In Belgaum:22 Persons Hurt■ »*» -The Times Of India*' News ServiceBELGAUM, May 4: A 72-hour curfew was imposed in parts of Belgaum from 0 a.m. today after 22 persons had been hurt in an attack on a procession near a mosque.	•Trouble started when the processionists refused to stopplay-(ng music before the mosque, It Is reported.Lathis were flung at Hie processionists from the first floor of a building ajoining the mosque. Later, when reports of the incident spread in the town, some shops were attacked.Four persons were stabbed in Darbar Galli and Chavat Galli areas. Oiie of the assailants was apprehended.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Three killed in Dasara clashesThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 12, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 23Three killed in Dasara clashesTHREE persons were killed . and several injured in clashes connected with Dasara celebrations in different parts of the txflttltry on Tuesday.Aurangabad (TOINS): One person wrishkilled and four were injured in aSoup clash at Balanagar village near igKIn in the district late last night.; The injured were admitted to the' Atirangabad medical college hospital where the condition of one of them, whjf suffered head injuries, was statid to be serious.Th'e trouble began when members of immunity reportedly stoned a place' of worship where Dasara pro-cessfonists were playing a band. A clash immediately followed between members of the two communities in which lethal weapons were freely% adds: State reserve police battalias have been rushed to the town, where'the situation, though tense, is stamp to be under control.The police said 24 persons were arrived till this morning in connect tioii'with the disturbances.Gubarga (UNI): The police fired thre rounds in the air to disperse miscreants who threw stones at the hodj^s of members of a particular community at Ijere,.40 km from here, lasttiight.. deputy inspector-general of (north-eastern range), Mr S. S. said immediately after the procession yesterday, some nts climbed rooftops and f peltine stones. A police head cong(able and three constables who wesson the spot fired in the air to scare.them away after a warning.He said five persons were injured in stone throwing. The situation is upper control now. Police pickets hawe.been posted in the village.Discontent Over the use of a piece offthd for worship was suspected to be the cause for the trouble. No arrqgs were made so far, Mr Pavate addqk \* • .	 “	-1Najmnn Many people were injured' in suaasih between Vishwa Hindu Panujad (VHP) activists.and supporters of a tribal organisation protesting against the burning of Rayana on Dasara day yesterday. .the Gond (tribal) Dharma Parish^, had organised a procession fronfK*, Anand, talkies chowk to Patwardhan ground in west Nagpur. Th%4ribals consider themselves de-; sceodants of Havana and were hence opposed to. burning an effigy of the deij&n king.The police said that feminists,. See®a Sakhare and Yamini Chqpdhary, and others, who had gpnfctb participate jn the procession, weigjttacked and abused by a group of people, alleged to be VHP supporters. -	.... ..............Chanting MJai Sriram slogans, they scuttled the procession and storied policemen who had gone to the rescue of the women activists.Workers of the Gond Parishad and sonije Dalit organisations protested;against the attack and retaliated by1 throwing stones. However, the police intervened and brought the situation under control. The police registered offences for rioting, unlawful, assembly and causing hurt. No arrest was made, so far.Ahmedabad: An indefinite curfew' was clamped on Vijapur town in the northern Gujarat district of Mehsana as violent group clashes broke out there late last night in which one person was killed and ten persons were injured.According to reports reaching here, the police had to fire ten rounds in the air to disperse the clashing mobs. Two of the seriously injured have been admitted to the civil hospital here. The trouble broke out when a religious procession was reportedly stoned in the Ram Baug area of the town late last evening.At least four shops were set ablaze. Police have arrested 54 people in this, connection. Additional police forces' have also been rushed to the riot-hit, town.	:Sporadic incidents of violence were also reported from Iqbalgadh town in Banaskantba district. The police had to fire four rounds to disperse two groups indulging in heavy brickbatting, in which five people were injured. Four shops were set ablaze. The police have arrested over 40 people.	.Rudan village in Kheda district; was also rocked by violence late last night when a religious procession was! reportedly stoned in which five people were injured. Four shops were set ablaze.	,Meanwhile, curfew was relaxed for six hours in the riot-hit town of Palanpur this morning from 9 a.m. to, 6 p.m. Curfew was also relaxed in Vadavali town in Mehsana district.Peace prevailed in the south Gujarat town of Bulsar which was rocked by group clashes yesterday in. which nine people, including four police officials, were injured.Jaipur (PTC): One person was killed and four were injured in police firing as violence broke out in Sarola town in Jhalawar district and 21 people were injured in clashes in Jahqjpur town during Dasara processions yesterday.Official sources here confirmed the. death due to gun shot wounds but could not confirm whether the death occurred due to police firingIndefinite curfew was clamped on: Jahqjpur town in Bhilwara district following violent incidents, in which 21 people, including 13 policemen, were injured. Several shops and a; tractor were set on fire before the curfew was enforced, the police said.Tension also .flared up in Kota, where three people were injured in. clashes. —	vMeanwhile, in Jaipur city, the administration has decided to enforce indefinite curfew, clamped on Shastri Nagar and its neighbouring areas, only during night hours following improvement in the situation.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Prohibitory orders in BelgaumThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 6, 1984; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 7Prohibitory orders in j BelgaumThe Times of India News ServiceBELGAUM, October 5: Prohibitory ftrders under section 144 were clamped *<|h Belgaum city for three days fro 'm today by the district magistrate as a precautionary measure to avert anyf breach of peace as tension mount-led following reports that a place of ■worship had been desecrated in Sha-hapujr are of the city,My stray incidents of stone throwing ,were reported from a few places, shops were closed and buses were withdrawn. Colleges were ordered to be ’closed.	:The police have made elaborate arrangements for maintaining normalcy in the city and police pickets have - beetle posted at strategic places, besides intensive patrolling. An addi-tiona.l reserve police platoon from Dharwad has been brought to Bel-adds: The police made a lathi-charge to quell stone-throwing crowds belonging to two communities at Belgium town today, • reports reaching the'‘police headquarters at Bangalore laid,lfae trouble was sparked oil when priests of a place of worship, found iUielr sanctum sanctorum spoilt; by a boy - of unsound mind.Ytimths of one of the communities, enraged by the act, went on a rampage,: hurling brickbats at shops be-lodging to the rival group.'The rival group retaliated and street battles were fought in several areas, including Khade Bazaar.A,. large number of persons were iniufeij on both sides and hospitalised^ Ole Teports said.■ The crowds also set fire to a shop but timely action by the police force prevented the fire from spreading.■A top police official described the situation in the town as “under control, but tense.”: Over 50 arrests have been made top police and district officials, in* eroding the DIG, the $P and the deputy commissioner, are camping on the spot.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Army takes over HyderabadThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Dec 10, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Army takes over HyderabadTimes of India News Service'' HYDERABAD, Dec. 9.THE Andhra Pradesh government decided to deploy army in the blood-smeared old city area of Hyderabad. The decision was taken at an emergency meeting of the state cabinet today in the wake of unprecedented violence. At least 59 people have been killed in the last three days.The army will take up positions in the old city by 9 tonight. Shoot-at-sight orders have been issued. The police will continue to be deployed.Violence continued to rage for the third successive day today. Twelve people were killed today. Ten people suffered bullet injuries after police fired'on a mob and 25 people were injured in stabbings.-The chief minister, Dr M. Channa Reddy, said that it appeared that there was an unorganised effort by some forces behind the current violence. The government had reportedly received information about anti-SQcials being recruited for creating ttoiible.- The state government is ordering a judicial enquiry into the current disturbances.The chief minister left an all-party Consultative meeting abruptly this afternoon because of sudden deterioration in the situation in the old city. '’ EVen people injured to the fre-qiierit riots in 1978-84 and the three-week*- spell of Ayodhya-related violence^ October-November this year are aghast at the bestial dimensions of thtidirrent violence such as attacks on women and children. Small chil-drep have succumbed to stab injuriesin hospital and two women were burnt alive in one incident last nightAlso, cattle were slaughtered in attacks in a suburban village.Three people were killed in Balapur, a village on the outskirts of Hyderabad. Curfew has been extended to 18 villages nearby and two' more police station areas of Hyderabad. In all 32 police station areas are under indefinite curfew. All schools in the twin city are to be closed for three days.The state government has announced ex-gratia payments of Rs10.000	each for people killed in the current violence and payments of Rs1.000	for the injured.The administration is making arrangements for the supply of essential► Cong, concern over riots, Page 21commodities in curfew-bound areas. Most areas in the old city have been under curfew without relaxation since Friday.Meanwhile a senior minister, Mr N. Srinivasul Reddy, resigned from the council of ministers today to protest against the Andhra Pradesh chief minister, Dr Channa Reddy’s handling of the present crisis of violence and the general style of functioning of the chief minister.In his resignation letter sent to the chief minister, Mr Srinivasul Reddy urged Dr Reddy to quit and save the state and the Congress at this critical juncture.Mr Srinivasul Reddy said he could not continue as a party to the government’s mishandling of the administration at a critical juncture. His resignation was an attempt to prevent bloodshed and dissociate himself and the Congress party from the state government’s actions.Mr Srinivasul Reddy is the first minister to quit Dr Channa Reddy’sministry due to differences with the chief minister. One minister, Mr K. Ranga Rao, had resigned following some allegations and two other ministers, Prof G. V. Sudhakar Rao and Mr S. Venkatreddy, were dropped when the chief minister expanded the ministry. Yet another minister, Mr V. Hanumanth Rao, had resigned to take up presidentship of Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee (APCC).Mr Srinivasul Reddy had functioned as a minister in Congress governments before joining Mr N. T. Rama Rao’s Telugu Desam Party. He held senior positions in Mr Rama Rao’s ministry but left NTR in 1987 to found an organisation called Seenaiah Sena. Mr Srinivasul Reddy campaigned extensively against Mr Rama Rao throughout Andhra Pradesh before merging Seenaiah Sena with Congress on the eve of 1989 elections. He was initially given charge of health in Dr Channa Reddy’s ministry but was later shifted to animal husbandry.Mr Srinivasul Reddy has been active in the dissident campaign against the chief minister in recent rtionths. Several dissidents like Mr K. E. Krishnamurthy, a former minister in the NTR government, Mr P. Sudhir Kumar, president of the A.P. Youth Congress and son of former Union minister, Mr P. Shivshankar, Mr J. Prasad Rao, son of former chief minister, Mr J. Vengal Rao and Dr Shankar Rao, Harijan leader, were present at the press conference where Mr Srinivasul Reddy announced his resignation.(The resignation of the animal husbandry	minister,	Mr N.Srinivasul Reddy, was accepted by the governor, Mr Krishan Kant, according to an official spokesman, reports PTI.)According to a report Mr Sultan Salahuddin Owaisi, MP, and president of All India Majlis-E-Ittehadul Muslimeen	(MIM),	expressedanguish over the ongoing violence and called upon the people of twin cities to maintain utmost restrain and help restore peace and amity.In a statement here today, Mr Owaisi said Hyderabad has glorious past with traditional values of brotherhood and it has to be maintained at any cost.The army tool; up positions in five hyper-sensitive areas, including Charminar, Mir Chowk and Chatrinaka, and staged flag-marches in curfew-bound and other vulnerable areas to instil confidence among' the people.Meanwhile a report from War-angal says the Naxalites, belonging to the People’s War Group (PWG), released four of the 15 hostages held by them and set fresh demands for the release of the others.According to police, the ultras sent fresh demands for the release of Lingala Ghanpur Mandal Praja Par-ishad president, Mr Neelam Swamy and Andhra Bank cashier of De-varuppala village Mr Bala Kumar.Their demands include release of their militant Sathyanna arrested by Jangaon police, open apology of Jangaon deputy superintendent of police Mr Sunder Kumar Das and a judicial enquiry into Nermetta incident on Wednesday last.■ Tirunelveli:	The formerPrime Minister, Mr V. P. Singh, today demanded the “immediate dismissal” of the Congress governmentin Andhra Pradesh “for failing to control” the communal forces responsible for the violent incidents in Hyderabad.Addressing a public meeting in this town in Tamil Nadu’s Tirunelveli Kattabomman district, Mr Singh expressed deep concern over the situation and said the state government had lost its right to govern.All secular forces should come together to restore peace and harmony, he said, and appealed to thestate’s people to offer their cooperation in this regard.New Delhi: The Congress president, Mr Rajiv Gandhi, deputed a team of senior party leaders to visit Hyderabad and make an assessment of the communal flareup which took a toll of many lives.The team comprising Mr Balram Jakhar, Mrs Mohsina Kidwai, Mr P. Chidambaram, Mr Janardhan Poo-jary and Mr M. J. Akbar will submit its report to the Congress president. The team left for Hyderabad this evening.Virdhunagar:. Mr V. P. Singh, said he was deeply grieved to know about the violent incident at Hyderabad and expressed the hope that peace and normalcy would be t restored soon.He said India’s greatest strength was the love and affection between people belonging to various com-, munities. “I assure you that we want an India of love and peace and not a country of hate and suspicion as desired by some forces,” he added.Speaking to newsmen at his residence, Mr Rama Rao accused Congress high command of adopting “double standards” and asked why the Channa Reddy-led Congress government could not be dismissed for failure to check communal violence when the former Karnataka chief minister, Mr Veerendra Patil, was removed by the party on similar grounds.“We do not want to pressurise anybody to resign, but it is their responsibility to protect people’s lives,” he said.Opposition parties’ leaders, present at Mr Rama Rao’s residence, alleged that the chief minister had failed to control the “deteriorating” law and order situation in the city.They resolved to jointly undertake peace marches in the riot-hit areas to spread the message of communal harmony.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Communal clashes in marble townThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jul 16, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 15Communal clashes in marble townThe Times of India News ServiceJAIPUR, July 15: The marble town of Makrana has witnessed three violent clashes involving two communities in a span of one, month and the atmosphere Continues to be surcharged.On Sunday, nearly 70 people, armed with hockey sticks and daggers, arrived from Borawa, four km from Makrana, in a private bus and attacked some houses near the railway crossing.During the hour-long attack ashuttle train coming from Parvatsar to Makrana had to be stopped at the outer signal for about 45 minutes. No casualty or serious injury was reported as the assailants fled after someone fired two shots in the air.Intervention by the local MLA, Mr Abdul Aziz, saved the situation. He has accused the police of “inaction for although some men from the state CID were present during the clash they did not take any action.Mr Abdul Aziz today met the state home minister, Mr Gulab Singh Shaktawat, and told him that if precautionary measures were not taken in Makrana soon, communal violence could erupt any time. He also pleaded for deployment of additional police force in the town.Mr Aziz informed the minister that two clashes involving two communities had occured earlier at a local cinema. In one case, the son of the pradhan of the panchayat samiti was allegedly involved.Hindu Andolan expels TupeThe Times of India News ServicePUNE, July 15: The Maharashtra State Hindu Ekta Andolan (MSHEA), an organisation of militant youths, has expelled the president of its Pune unit,Mr Vilas Tupe, for taking up action programmes that were beyond the organisation’s capacity.Some time back Mr Tupe had announced that the Hindu Ekta would demolish the Rajneesh Ashram before January 26 with the help of a specially created commando force. This was given wide media coverage both within the country and abroad. However, this proved to be merely art empty threat as the Rajneesh Ashram continues to function normally.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Hundred Injured In Lathi ChargeThe Times of India (1861-current); Mar 9, 1953; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1Hundred Injured In Lathi ChargeAGITATION IN DELHI ■»«»-------------“The Times of India” News ServiceDELHI, March 8.More than 100 persons were injured, 25 seriously, as the result of a lathi charge by the police to disperse a meeting held here this evening under the joint iuspices of the Hindu Maha-sabha, the Jan Sangh and the Ram Rajya Parishad.Nine persons, including Professor Ram .Singh, M. L. A. (Delhi), were arrested under Section 151, I. P. C.	,Today was the third day of the movement launched by the Jan •Sangh in support of the Jammuagitation.	'	■	•It is understood that the trial of Dr. Mookerjee, Mr. Chatter-jee, Mr. Nandlal Shastri and others who were arrested on Friday, will start in the district jail tomorrow.MR. P. S. RAU Adviser To PEPSU Rajpramukh“The Times of India” News ServiceNEW DELHI, March 8: Mr. P. S. Rau, I.C.S., formerly Regional Commissioner of Madhya Bharat, has been appointed Adviser to the Rajpramukh ot PEPSU following the proclamation ot Presidential rule in the State.Mr. Rau, wno is the Chairman of the Damoaar Valley Inquiry Committee, Is expected to return from Calcutta next week and proceed to Patiala to assume charge of his new office.Mr. V. K. B. Pillal, I.C.S., at present Counsellor at Patiala will continue in that office until a decision is taken on another appointment for him.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Bareilly Situation QuietThe Times of India (1861-current); Feb 10, 1950; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1_ % .Bareilly Situation QuietLUCKNOW, February 9:	“Savefor a minor incident yesterday afternoon Bareilly has continued to remain quiet, according to official reports received here this evening, ‘ states a communique issued tonight by the sub-committee of the State Press Consulative Committee.The communique' added; “The Curfew could not be lifted at ten p.m. last night, but was extended till eight a.m. It was reimposed at 12 noon. Intensive patrolling by the army and the P.A. continued.Seventy-eight persons were arrested for breach of the curfew yesterday out of whom 70 were convicted. Today 118 people were convicted and ordered to pay fines rang, ing from Rs. 5 to 25 each.“Among other incidents today was the pulling of the alarm chain of a train at the outer signal of the railway station.”—P.T.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿One dead in Baroda firingThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 15, 1981; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1BARODA, September 14 (UNI).THE police today opened fire thrice to curb violent mobs as group clashes continued in the city for the second consecutivednvOne person was injured in the firing nd several, including over 12 police-len, received injuries in the incidents f stoning, arson and looting at va-ous places. '	1	' 'A 30-year-old man had died in olice firing yesterday, while two thers had received bullet injuries, he funeral bf the firing victim was eld peacefully this afternoon.The police burst over 70 teargas s hells 'during the day as rioters went c n the rampage despite an indefinite c urfew in force in the affected areas.The curfew, imposed last night, was r elaxed for four hours this morning , rom 8 a.m.	_Normal life in most parts of the city ' /as seriously affected, with many offi-:es reporting thin attendance. Stu-i lents boycotted classes in the uni-ersity.In Ladwada area, the nerve-centre i f the violence, four houses were set i n fire and several shops broken open. < fiicial sources said.The police > seized a large catch of dharias”, acid bulbs, iron pipes and ither weapons from houses in the sensitive” areas and detained more ban 30 “anti-social elements” as a ireventive measure.As the tension mounted and the iolence threatened to spread to new reas, the police stepped up patrolling n all the known trouble-spots. Rein-forcements from Nadiad, Mensana ana Rajkot have been requisitioned to help the local authorities.	.The Gujarat finance minister, Mr, Sanat Mehta; and the deputy labour minister, Mr. Chandrakant Patel, held discussions with senior district officials about the situation, followed by a meeting with leading citizens to discuss means of restoring peace.'Yesterday’s trouble had erupted when some miscreants poured dirty water from some house tops on to a “Ganesh” immersion procession.Kamlapati operated onNEW DELHI, September 14 (PTI): Mr. Kamlapati Tripathi, former railway minister and veteran Congress(I) leader, was today operated on at the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences. .	,	.Mr. Tripathi had developed a big boil in his right hand. His family members said that the boil was not malignant.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Arson and stoning continue in PuneThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); May 2, 1988; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1The Times of India News ServiceBPUNE, May 1. URNING of shops and throwing of stones con-lilted between 6.00 a.m. and 10.00 a.m. on Monday. The 48-hour curfew, which began on Saturday, is scheduled to end at 10.00 a.m. on Monday.inued for the second day today n Pune even in the areas where he authorities had clamped a 18-hour curfew yesterday.The trouble broke out following the reported desecration of an idol in a place of worship in the busy central Pune on Saturday morningTension mounted today m one of the areas under curfew as hundreds of people gathered at a temple.After the midnight of Saturday, incidents of arson took place in several areas. They included the burning of a readymade clothes stores and a shop of electrical appliances. At some places, groups of people tried to damage places of worship, but the police foiled their attempts.Mr Mathur said though the situation in central Pune was tense, it was well under control. Since the incident of desecration, there were 12 cases of arson and 16 cases of stone-throwing that were repotted to the police. So far, 68 persons had been arrested.He said during the past two-days, 16 persons were injured in stone-throwing. However, there was no stabbing incident.The areas which have remained incident-free are the Cantonment and the Pimpri-Chinchwad-Bhosari industrial belt.blaze. The loss of property could not b< ascertained.PT1 adds: The police have urged “responsible citizens” to keep a watcl at sensitive places in their areas and discourage rumour mongering leading to trouble.BANDHS OBSERVEDThe news of yesterday’s sacrilege spread to all the areas around Pune and in nearby districts. Bandhs were observed at different places.In the city, incidents of stone-throwing and arson also took place in the non-curfew areas. In Yerwada, the Shiv Sena, Patit Pa van Sanghatana and a traders’ organisation gave the bandh calL There were incidents of stoning PMT buses, and as a result, vehicular traffic came to halt for about an hour.In another non-curfew area of Gokhale Nagar, a group of young men attacked a police patty- The police acted quickly and arrested six persons. At Kothrud, some people formed an unlawful assembly in front of a place of worship. But the police dispersed them.The police lifted the curfew on Sunday morning between 6.00 a.m. and 7.00 a.m. and only women were allowed to come out This was done to enable them to buy milk and other essentials.The deputy police commissioner of police, Mr S. C. Mathur, today told newsmen that the curfew would beDespite the communal tension, the industrial workers observed “May Day*'. The trade unions affiliated to AITUC, CTTU and Sarva Shramik Sangh took out a procession. Shouting slogans of international solidarity of the working class, they condemned communal clashes.The state transport employees’ unions affiliated to the INTUC held their convention at the Congress House.Meanwhile, the RSS chief; Mr Balasaheb Deoras, today visited the temple of Dagdu Halwai Ganapati and offered prayers. Later, he addressed a private function at which he made no mention of the situation in the city.UNI adds: Two toy shops belongingto the Pune municipal corporation standing committee chairman, Mr Rashid Khan, were destroyed in a fire in the densely-populated Revivarpeth locality and a place of worship was burnt in another locality last nightA paints shop was gutted in fire on the Pune-Satara road, and efforts to set afire a religious place in Bibewadi locality was made last nightDEORAS SHOCKEDThe RSS chie^Mr Balasaheb Deoras expressed shock over die incident o desecration of the Ganapati idol an< said it was infuriating.He said it was an onslaught on th< honour of Hindus made by some anti' national elements. All those connecter with the inculent should note that thii would not be tolerated, he warned.Mr Deoras, whp arrived in Punt today, immediately went to the Dagdi Halwai {temple and offered prayers Huge crowds were present in ant around the temple at the time of hi visit.Accused in Rajiv murder plot deadNEW YORK, May 1 (PTI): Ai alleged Sikh extremist for whom at international alert had been issuer three years ago in connection with j plot to assassinate the Prime Minister Mr Rajiv Gandhi, during a visit to th< United States, has died, according to { published reportDalbir Singh died in an accident in the Seattle area on March 25 when the pick-up truck he was riding collided with another vehicle, the California-bsaefilndia West weekly reported in it* latest issue, quoting the police.The fire brigade had a tough time last night attending to about 20 calls, including the one which required the rushing of 15 fire-tenders to contain theDalbir Singh, who used alias “Am-mand Singh”, “Jagtar Singh” and “Amar Nath”, was chiged along witi Lai Singh LaUy and G. S. Birk with conspiring to loll Mr Gandhi, sobcrtinf another person for the act, conspiring to possess fire-arms and transport explosives.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿1 KILLED: 2 HURT IN FIRINGThe Times of India (1861-current); Mar 3, 1953; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 11	KILLED: 2 HURT IN FIRINGParishad Mob Attacks Police—'  ^M» —■The Times of India” News Service JAMMU, March 2:	One per-lon was killed and two were njured when the police opened ire on a Parishad mob yester-iay at Ramban, 98 miles from tere on the Jammu-Srinagar lighway.-	■According tu olticlai reports •eceived -here, a violent Parishad . notu about 2.Q00 strong attacked ;he*police “thana” at Ramban. rhe Magistrate on duty ordered ;he crowd to disperse. When :hey refused to move away, he >rdered a lathi charge- The nob replied by throwing stones it the ponce The Magistrate ;hen* ordered the police party to open Are. Three persons were injured?* one of whom died later in the hospital-Jagannath Panjabi, a refugee, iva* run over by the Bojnbay-itanmad passenger near Shrtram-pur railway station on Monday. He lied on thd spot.	^Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿CURFEW IMPOSED ON VERAVAL AS MOB VIOLENCE CONTINUESThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Nov 28, 1968; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 1CURFEW IMPOSED ON , VERAVAL AS MOB VIOLENCE CONTINUES“Die Times of India” News ServiceRAJKOT, November 27.24-HOUR curfew was imposed this afternoon on the riot-torn coastal town of Vefaval as the mob violence, which broke out yesterday, showed no sign of abating.Crowds indulged in arson, looting and stone-throwing.The situation was tense in the evening as news spread of the death of a boy reported to have been stabbed last night.,Disturbances began in the twin towns of Veraval and Prabhas Patan with the burial of a body in the compound of tfye deceased’s residence instead of at the burial ground.PITCHED BATTLESRight from the morning groups of people fought pitched battles, set lire to houses on the main road and looted shops. The police repeatedly used tear-gas arid made lathi-charges with little clTcct.	tThe police arrested niany people carrying lethal weapons.Hie Government today instructed tho police to deal with the hooligans firmly and the authorities here were in constant touch with those at Veraval.The six fire-fighters in the town were practically engaged all the time today.By evening they managed to bring all the fires under control. A fire in a building near the telephone exchange put the exchange out of commission.All the fire-engines rushed to Veraval from nearby towns were asked to stay on for a few more days. The D.I.G., Rajkot division, who is in Veraval, has asked for police reinforcements.CM’s APPEALAhmedabad: Forty people were injured, according to reports reaching heic till 4 p.m. Hie police arrested over 50 people.. Telephone communication with Vera-val has been cut off since this afternoon.The Chief Minister of Gujarat, Mr.Hitendra Desai, said he was deeply pained to learnt that tension still continued in Veraval town.In a statement this evening the Chief Minister earnestly appealed to the people of Veraval to maintain peace and have patience and not give any support to anti-social elements.—P.T.l.Junagadlis Mr. R. Trivedi, additional district magistrate of Junagadii, said here on Wednesday that reports appearing in a section of 'the press about burning of three cows in Veraval, 80 miles, from here, were ‘‘completely baseless.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew Follows Stabbing Cases In Border TownThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jan 10, 1964; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Curfew Follows Stubbing Cases In Border TownCALCUTTA, January 9.ADUSK-TO-DAWN curfew was imposed today on the subdivisional town of Bongaon (24-Parganas) bordering East Pakistan, 37 miles from here.This step was taken following some stray cases of stabbing and assault. The situation in the area is now said to be under control.Some persons received brickbat injuries in a number of stray incidents in Calcutta city and _ suburbs this evening. The police said that these incidents occurred following an attack by a crowd on a students’ procession organised in protest against the atrocities on the minority community in Khulna and other areas of East Pakistan. The miscreants disappeared on the arrival of the police. The situation was reported auiet everywhere late in the evening.— P.T.l.10 Indians RescuedMOSCOW, January 9: Ten Indians, including a girl, who were rescued from a drifting lifeboat in the Indian Ocean by the Soviet ship, “Tsymlyanskges”, on Tuesday are being given first' aid treatment aboard. .The boat’s occupants speak no European language. But by signs indicated that they drifted away from the Mal-dive Islands “a long time previously.” —Reuter.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Police fire at mob in SuratThe Times of India (J86J-current); Sep 7, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Police fire at mob\mSuratSURAT, September 6 (PTI): The otherwise peaceful Ganesh idol immersion festival in Gujarat was today marked by an incident of stone-rpelting near the Udhna railway yard here, leading to police firing.The police fired four rounds in the air to disperse a mob indulging in stone-pelting when a procession was passing through a sensitive area.Five police personnel, including an inspector, were injured in the stonethrowing, the police said.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Poonch stir to he called offThe Times of India (J86J-current); Dec 13, 1978; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9Poonch stir to be called offJAMMU, December 12 (UNI): The two-month-old agitation in Poonch will be withdrawn tomorrow , as the chief minister, Mr. Sheikh Abdullah, has accepted all the demands. Mr.G. M. Mir Poonchi, leader of the three-member delegation from Poonch, which met the chief minister today, told newsmen.He said the chief minister has accepted all_ our demands and there is no necessity of continuing the agitation. We are leaving for Poonch andthe announcement regarding the withdrawal of the agitation will be made tomorrow afternoon at a public meeting there.”Mr. Mir Poonchi, who is also the vice-president of the Jammu and Kashmir pradesh Congress (I), said that all the qualified candidates who were earlier rejected by the Poonch recruitment board need not appear for any interviews' and they would be selected for the 90 posts already announced,Assam bandh:500 arrestedGAUHATI, December 12 (UNI):About 500 people were arrested throughout Assam today in connection with the state-wide bandh called by students, according to official reports here.The arrests were made for violation of prohibitory orders in force under section 144 Cr. P.C. Hie state government has instructed the district authorities to release all those arrested against whom there were no specific charges.Another stabbing in AligarhBy Onr CorrespondentALIGARH, December 12: One person was stabbed at Jaiganj in the heart of the trouble-torn city yesterday evening. The victim has been admitted to hospital and is still not out of danger.The district magistrate, Mr, V. K.Dee wan, said the incident had nothing to do with recent disturbances as it involved persons belonging to the same community. The outrage was traceable to “old enmity.’* The assailants had been wanting the victim to vacate a shop.Meanwhile, the senior superintendent of police, Mr. Jagmohan Saxena, said 16 more persons had been arrested, raising the total of anests to 116 since Friday's stabbing incident in the Chiragh Chian locality, in which one person died instantly and another sustained multiple dagger wounds.The police claim they recovered three country-made pistols and six cartridges from three persons yesterday. The situation is stated to be ‘‘tense” but .well under control.Night curfew, already over two months old, is still in force. Heavy patrolling by BSF and CRP japans is going on round the clock as a precautionary measure.UP power workers get ultimatumLUCKNOW, December 12 (PTI):The power workers strike in UttarPradesh today took a serious turn with the state electricity board issuing orders of termination of services of all those employees who fail to report on duty immediately.The leaders of the striking workers reacted sharply to the step and reiterated their decision to continue the strike till their demands, including wage increase, were conceded.UNI adds; Meanwhile, the Uttar Pradesh hvdro-electric employees union today withdrew its strike notice and directed its members to resume their duties from tomorrow as the state electricity board authorities had agreed to consider their demands sympathetically.The union claims a membershipabout 25,000. The hydro-electric employees union is the first labour organisation to withdraw the strike notice and direct its members to resume their duties.The power minister, Mr. R. K.Shahi, said, power supply to the Mussoorie television centre was disrupted due to sabotage and it was now being run by diesel generators.In Lucknow, attempts were made to disrupt supply on the 132 kv line rear Sarojini Nagar and also deprive the capital’s water works of electricity.	•Mr. Shahi claimed that 1,600 out of the 6,000 junior engineers, who had withdrawn their strike on Saturday evening, had already reported for duty till this afternoon.He also claimed that the operating Btaff . attendance at Meerut, Chibro and Kesa (Kanpur) power houses has improved and in Agra 80 per cent of the staff had resumed duty,>.	——----------— Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿2 more die in Bharuch clashesThe Times of India (1861-current); May 20, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 12 more die inBharuch clashesBHARUCH, May 19 (UNI): Two more persons were stabbed to death and five others suffered stab injuries in renewed group clashes last night in this curfew-bound south Gujarat city, the police said.The toll in the three-day violence has risen to five. At least eight houses have been set on fire by the mob.A large number of lethal weapons including swords and knives were recovered in the massive combing operations launched by the police today.The district collector, Mr S. R. Rao, said 168 were arrested in connection with various offences. The State Reserve Police continued their intensive patrolling of the sensitive areas.Meanwhile the state director general of police, Mr Man Mohansingh, today rushed to the city to supervise law and order arrangements. Mr Rao clarified that the violence suddenly erupted in the city after a boy had entered a place of worship with his shoes on to bring out a ball which had gone inside while playing cricket in the street.Nine TN pilgrims die in mishapMANGALORE, May 19 (UNI): Nine pilgrims from Tamil Nadu, including seven women, were killed instantly and 32 others injured when a private bus in which they were travelling rolled into a ditch at Guthiger, in Dakshina Kannada district, today.The police said the pilgrims were on their way to Mysore from Subramanya in'the same district.The bus belonged to a private tourist operator at Erode in Tamil Nadu.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿U.P. govt. stifling riot inquiriesAJAY SINGHThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Dec 13, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 7By AJAY SINGHThe Times of India News ServiceLUCKNOW, December 12.1 A T least a dozen judicial in> /\quiry reports probing into s the genesis of communal riots in i the state have been buried into 5 secretariat files for the past two decades. None of these reports were made public.The successive state governments' failure to release these reports and t< > initiate actions on the basis of thei ' recommendations have givei i | credence to the belief that there wen : . no serious attempts to check com -munal violence in the state.■	In 1971, soon alter the seriou • outbreak of communal violence ii i■	Moradabad district, the state govern ■ I ment had ordered a judicial inquir < ; headed by a high court judge.; The inquiry continued for the nex : ; two years and submitted its report t< i _ the state government. Nothing corn* : r out of it and the file is still gatherin]; dust in the home department.:	Prior to Moradabad riots, a ju ■: dicial probe was ordered into thi: s Aligarh riots in 1970 when th ■ : famous Gyan Prakash committei: i was constituted to find out the gen ■ esis of riots and to suggest measure ;to curb its recurrence. This inquiry reports too met with the same fate.Although some districts of the state had been identified as riot-prone areas since independence, the 1980 Aligarh riots added a sinister dimension to communal flare-up when instances of police brutality came to light.In 1980, the riots in Aligarh started from an id-gah when a sacrilegous animal barged into the worship place and a large gathering went bersek. What followed was a trail of destruc-tion of property and human lives. About two dozen persons were killed in the firing by the PAC and police-men.This time again the state government announced a judicial inquiry which submitted its report after a thorough probe into the incidents. The inquiry is reported to have indicted some politicians for inciting the communal violence and recommended to constitute an “antiriot” force of a secular character.These recommendations came in the wake of numerous complaints which highlighted the police brutality that was indicative of communal nature.The report which was considered to be a detailed study on communal riots had again been shelved and the state government did not bother torelease it or accept its recommendations. The state government’s reluctance to release these reports had virtually stirred a hornet’s nest in theU.P. vidhan sabha when opposition members demanded to know as to why the PAC was suddenly withdrawn from the riot-hit areas, making the situation even worse.There were several other instances when the state government instituted inquiry and later scuttled these probes. In 1982 and 1986, communal clashes in Meerut and in 1986 for Allahabad riots, judicial inquiries were allegedly instituted by the state government only as an “eyewash.”Serious doubts about the state government’s intentions can be expressed with regard to the complete hush-up of Rangnath Mishra commission report on the 1984 anti-Sikh riots in Kanpur. Despite indictment of the district administration by the supreme court judge, no disciplinary r action against any officers, for their administrative lapses which sparked the riots, was taken.Instead, the then district magistrate, Mr Brijendra was brought to the prized post of the secretary, urban development even though the Rangnath Mishra commission had recommended an administrative inquiry and stern action against the officer;According to senior police officers,Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Rath welcomed in BarodaThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 29, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 7The Times of India News ServiceBARODA, Sept. 28.I’he. Kam ratnyatra ot me Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president, Mr L. K. Advani, was given a tumultuous reception when it entered Baroda districtfrom Kaira on the third day of its 36-day tour from Somnath to Avodhva. vesterdav.■ <t --j j---------j ■The health minister, Mr Nalin Bhatt, who belongs to the BJP, received the procession at Fazalpur, the entry point to the district, on the banks of Mahi river.More than 3,000 volunteers belonging to the BJP, the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) and the Ba-jrang Dal, joined the rally from Fazalpur on two-wheelers, tempos and cars. Later it moved through some main thoroughfares in the city before dispersing following a public meeting at the Jubilee Bagh in theheart of the city.Thousands of people waited on both sides of the road at several places even though the rathyatra was more than four hours behind schedule.Shouts of ”BJP Zindabad and “Ram mandir bana ke rahenge” rent the air as Mr Advani moved through the city at the head of the procession. From Fazalpur, the procession reached Chhani on the outskirts of the city where he was given a tra-ditional reception by girls with kalash on their heads. Coupled with the navratri festivals, the garba reception gave a festive mood to the people.As soon as the procession reached Fazalpur, hundreds of crackers were burst to signal the entry to Baroda district. Crackers were also burst at Chhani and later near the statue of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel in Saya-jiganji area in the city. At every point where Mr Advani due to address brief meetings, huge crowds waited for hours to have a glimpse of him.Accompanied by the BJP state unit president, Mr Shankarsinh Vaghela, Mr Advani’s rally reached here after, visiting Nadiad, Anand, Karamsad and Borsad towns in Kaira district amidst rousing receptions all through his route. He was forced to address brief road-side meetings at many places.At most of his brief meetings Mr Advani was expressed the BJP’s determination to go ahead with the Ram Janmabhoomi temple construction programme as per schedule.Mr Advani said no power on earth could stop the temple construction and if any attempt was made by the government to do so, it would spread widespread discontent among the people across the country. He said the BJP volunteers would be ready to fill the jails if the government wanted to arrest those attempting to construct the temple.All through Kaira district, the “Ram rath” received rousing receptions from the people and the party volunteers.At Karamsad in Kaira district, Mr Advani paid lofty tributes to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and Vithalbhai Patel and also visited their ancestral home in the town. Addressing the gathering, Mr Advani said Karamsad was a pilgrim centre for all nationalist forces as it was the “Iron man of India” who had united the country. Later, he also handed over the “Bharat Bhaskar” award to the VHP. The award was received by Mr Vithalbhai Patel’s grandson, Mr Praful Patel. The priest of the San-tram mandir at Karamsad presented Mr Advani with a “Sudarshan chakra” of lord Krishna made in silver. Clad in saffron, the volunteers carrying “trishuls” as well as naked styords joined the rally at Fazalpur serving as pilots and guards to the rathyatra.Earlier, similar mini-rallies were taken out in the city to create an atmosphere of “jubiliation.”Tension prevailed in the city since morning following the mysterious appearance of some anti-BJP posters last night in some of the sensitive areas. A number of shops were closed down in different areas as rumours kept making rounds. The situation however, remained peaceful.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Riots, arson at JogeshwariA Staff ReporterThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jan 28, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Riots, arson at JogeshwariBy A Staff ReporterBOMBAY, January 27: A ten-hour long curfew was imposed in the jurisdiction of the Jogeshwari police station following large scale rioting and arson in the Radhabai chawl,Squatters colony, income-tax colony and Meghwadi areas, the police said.Trouble began around 6.30 p.m., the police said. Stone pelting was reported and within two hours three shops were set afire. According to thefire brigade, eight fire engines were sent to the spot and the fire was putoff.Curfew was imposed in the areas at 10 p.m. and will be lifted at 8 a.m. tomorrow.The chief minister, Mr Sharad Pawar, the police commissioner Mr S. Ramamurthi and the additional commissioner of the area, Mr A. A. Khan camped at the site till late night. The additional commissioner, Mr Khan, continued to patrol the area alongwith his staff till late night while the commissioner and the CM later left.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Environment loser in ministry’s moveThe Times of India (J86J-current); Aug 31, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 6Environment loser in ministry's moveNEW DELHI, August 30 (UNI):The environment and forests ministry has submitted a set of proposals to the cabinet, which if accepted, would considerably limit the role of the ministry.One of the proposals seeks to raise the investment ceiling for projects which require environment clearance from Rs 20 crores to Rs 100 crores.This proposal, critics point out, would leave free the small and medium scale factories and industries which come up anywhere and everywhere posing health and environmental hazards. This is also be contradiction to the minister of state for environment, Ms Maneka Gandhi’s plea that the investment ceiling for environment clearance be reduced to Rs 5 crores.The proposals are contained in a document	“environmentalassessment of development projects” reportedly cleared by the cabinet minister, Mr Nilamani Routray, for submission to the cabinet The committee of secretaries will consider the document firstOrissa town tense after clashesBALASORE (Orissa), August 30 (PTI): At least three persons were injured in a group clash between two communities at Bhograi, 70 km fiom here on Sunday, according to a delayed official report received here.'Police sources described the present situation there as “tense but under control”. Poljpe pickets have been posted in the area and one person has been arrested.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Violence at Palej to be probedThe Times of India (J86J-current); May 4, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Violence atto be probedNEW DELHI, May 3 (UNI).THE minister of state for home, Mr Subodh Kant Sahay, informed the Rajya Sabha today that the Gujarat government had ordered a high-level inquiry into the violence at Palej railway station in Bharuch district on April 30, in which one person was killed and eight were injured.	,The nightmare at Palej, Page 3Making a suo moto statement in the house, the minister said the inquiry is being conducted by the inspector-general of police.A case had been, registered against the rioters and “21 people arrested in this connection”.Mr Sahay said the incident involved a group of Bhatliya Janata Party (BJP) and Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) workers travelling by Bombay-Fcrozepur Janata Express and some local people.	'■1 stabbed; curfew in Bharuch .The Times of India News ServiceAHMEDABAD, May 3: One person was stabbed to death in Bharuch town for the second successive day this morning. An indefinite curfew has been damped on the town as a precautionary measure.A youth was stabbed near Dhobi-Talav area by a group of unidentified people. He died on th^ spot. Some of the residents of the area tried to chase the miscreants, but they managed to escape.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Toll rises to 65 as fresh riots rock AligarhThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Dec 11, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Toll rises to 65 as freshriots rock AligarhThe Times of India News ServiceALIGARH, December 10.THE toll in the violence in this curfew-bound city crossed 65, with the death of 11 more people today.However, officials put the death roll at 33.Eight members of a family in the Katra locality were burnt to death by a mob this evening. Earlier in the day, the police shot dead three persons who were attempting to damage a place of worship.Though the city witnessed a peaceful night yesterday, it woke up to bomb blasts and gunshots from a number of localities in the old city. .Violence was also reported from nearby townships, including Atrauli.In Aligarh, the violence today was triggered by reports that some patients had been killed at Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College Hospital yesterday.However, Prof K. P. Singh, senior teacher in Aligarh Muslim University, and two members of a fact-finding mission who visited the hospital this evening said the reports were “totally baseless.”. '	'The indefinite curfew clamped in Kasganj town of Etah district last evening was lifted this morning, UNI adds. Curfew was clamped there following tension after a man who threw a bomb at a house in a neighbouring village was killed by agitated people.The district magistrate, Mr Desh Deepak Verma, has been transferred. He handed over charge this afternoon to Mr A. K. Mishra, who was earlier the district magistrate of Allahabad.Syed Zubair Ahmed adds: While there is no denying that the communal violence in Aligarh was a spinoff of the Ramjanambhoomi-Babri masjid controversy, the immediate provocation was a case of molestation.Hours before Sarai Sultani near Jama Masjid was rocked by bomb explosions on Thursday last, members of two communities had a skirmish at the Malha ka Nagla locality and the news spread like wild fire. The fight had taken place following areported sexual assault on a 35-year-old widow who had been living with the milkman of the locality.While the milkman was away, two persons had forcibly entered his house and tried to rape the widow. However, the nearby residence resued her when she screamed for help. The following morning the milkman gathered his friends and a fight ensued.- The timely intervention of the police defused the situation.However, the milkman took the woman to a police station and lodged an FIR, naming the two men and alleging' that the two intruders had raped her.On the other hand, some local leaders, giving the incident a communal colour, went to Lucknow and reportedly told the chief minister, Mr Mulyam Singh Yadav, that some constables of the Provincial armed consutabulary (PAC) were involved in the alleged rape.Meanwhile, the woman, who was detained at the Kuarsi police station, reportedly told the police that she was (Continued on Page IS)Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Attack on marriage party: 6 hurtThe Times of India (1861-current); May 22, 1973; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 7Attack on marriage party: 6,hurtHYDERABAD, May 21: 'Six peo-. jple, including the bridgroom, were in-/ jured when a marriage procession of one community was attacked by nearly. 25 members of another comma-nity, near Shaik Faiz Kaman in Rain Bazaar area of the old city last night.Three constables who attempted to control the situation were also injured.	.Two person^ had been rounded up and the police were searching for some others.An official press note today said top police officers visited the spot and supervised arrangements toL maintain law and order in the area.— P.T.I.One killed in Nepal firingKATHMANDU, May 21: One person was killed and six others were seriously injured when the - police opened fire yesterday on an unruly mob at Masikot, about 500 km. west of here, an official here said today.A home ministry spokesman said that the police were forced to open fire as a last resort when all efforts failed to disperse, an irate and instigated armed mob which attempted to assault local officials.The mob was protesting against the ghifting of. the headquarters of Rukum district, in western Nepal, on the basis Of an expert team’s report.—P.T.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Orissa violence spreads; toll 8The Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Mar 27, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Orissa violence spreads; toll 8The Time* of India New* Service BHUBANESWAR, March 26.THE toll in the communal violence in Bhadrak town today rose to eight, and the tension spread to adjoining areas of Dhenkenal and Cuttack districts.Curfew was extended for an indefinite period in Bhadrak. Home department sources hire confirmed seven deaths, but the Bhadrak police claimed the toll had risen to eight.An official spokesman said tonight that the violence had spread to Ran-dia, Govindpur and Vasudevpur. Thirteen shops were set on fire at Vasudevpur,The police opened fire in Bhadrak to disperse a mob defying curfew restrictions. But no one was killed. Twenty-five policemen were injured in stone-throwing.Eighty people were arrested in Bhadrak and its sorrounding areas. The authorities announced cancellation of all examinations in the town and hostellers were asked to vacate the premises immediately.Two companies of the Central Reserve Police Force were being rushed to Bhadrak from Patna. *The chief minister, Mr Biju Pat-nailc, reviewed the situation with the home secretary and the director-general of police. The district administration has summoned additional police from Jhasugada.Meanwhile, some other parts of the state, including Cuttack, Kendrapara, Jashpur, Binjhapur, Balasoie, Sona and Dhampur, were reported to be tense. Police patrolling was intensified in these areas.Train services were affected on the Bhadrak-Bhubaneswar section of the south-eastern railway. All trains were either running late or detained before Bhadrak.Bhadrak has been under curfew since Sunday following clashes during a Ramnavami procession or-gaffeed by the Vishwa Hindu Par-ishad and the RSS. One person was killed.The miscreants indulged in large-scale looting and arson as a visit to the town revealed. Shutters of many shops were broken and goods burnt. Many vehicles were set on fire.The violence spread on Sunday as the police force was outnumbered by the attackers. Twenty policemen were injured in stone-throwing at Chandan bazar, which was the worst affected.Officials at Bhadrak said the miscreants continued their looting spree till late into the night even during the curfew period. They put up obstructions <!m the roads and the national highway, delaying the arrival of police reinforcements.Fire tenders, Which rushed to the affected areas, were set on fire, as were hutments on a highway.The miscreants also reportedly laid siege to a village on the highway damaging trucks parked on the roadside.Mr Jewel Oraon, BJP MLA, alleged that the Bhadrak MLA and labour minister, Mr Prafulla Samala, was present when the disturbances began, but left immediately and did not intervene to control the situation.Mr Samala, on the other hand, has allied the RSS hand in the violence. This is the first incident of communal violence in Orissa since Mr Biju Patnaik took over as chief minister.The BJP legislator claimed that the administration had permitted the VHP to take out the procession, and the slogans which were raised by the members were authorised” by the administration.Meanwhile, the state unit of the BJP tonight gave a call for Orissa bandh on March 28 in protest against the government’s failure to protect life and property in Bhadrak.An announcement about the proposed bandh call was made by the BJP’s state office here. It alleged that the police failed to act promptly to prevent arson and killing of innocent people. It demanded imposition of President's rule.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Clashes, arson in AssamThe Times of India (1861-current); Aug 16, 1982; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1GAUHATL August is CPTt):0NE person was killed and some others! were injured in a dash jetween two - groups' yd£ - people? ait3oreswar- in..Kamrup ~ district to-lay, according to official sources.'he; sources said the. incident oc-curred .when .a group of’processionists was^attacked, by another'group. ^ ?The- sources' .said in, a similar inci« dent, six persons wire . injured' at Taiibhanga in ?Darrahg • .district. One assistant sub-inspector .police- and two constable^.were assaulted by some people -near-Behali iff the same district. Ther aJsos^set firentd ar police . motorcycle. ■J‘	’	, • ■?■Reports of. removal; of, the, national, flag by miscreants were’receivedvff om Palasbari,' Boko;: Beltola /in;. Kanjrup: district. ?$omeNS tray .. incidents .of a$-sautts were, also7 reported from iG.au-, c hati t6wn„. \Altogether /.ISO arrests ’.were, made: from, different parts of . the state as. a preventive,' measure, the sources added. , ■iOur- ^Correspondent-- >’.add&i..Attend--ance-4t' the Independence.. Day^fune-?tion-ai • Jud^s^iEitei'gfhereihe^'•*#*©*'■ nbrV Mr.;? P'rakashfptebfotira; unfurled. the national flag, -vyas idthel1 thin because' Of the “pepplfe^/Ibhrf^N' orf^e. nised by the> ' All-Assam - Students Uniop. and; the.. AlfcAssariuGana: .Sahr.. grain Parishadi ;.-.->?*.a , - ■ 7 f The two bodies were- protesting-again^t’ the government’s,: failure to find? a solution, ■, to the ‘foreign na* tionals’ issue. :	; a ? ■	?/ Amritsar (PTI) : .'./.Two stray inei-dents, /involving* activists?Of the All-India Sikh Students’, federation mark? ed - the .Independence Day functions here., / .	:''QV.?-.-'■/-In one .of- the/ incidents,... a. Sikh youth threw a pamphlet; towards the Punjab minister of development and panchayats,' Mf. Santokh. Singh Ran-dhawa, while -be ‘ was - presiding over the-official function at/Gufu -Naffak stadium. ?	’• /;In another* incident the federation members .did not' allow the district Congress president, Mr.' Sadhu ‘Ram Sharma, to speak at a function in Chowk Baba Sahib near the Golden Temple. Pandemonium prevailed for sometime when the federation activists captured the dais. Some; furniture was reported to have been damaged. _ . •Contingents of the Ptinjab police, BSF and CRPF deployed nearby, however, blocked the streets and restored calm. ,	- ?	’	;Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Varanasi situation still tenseThe Times of India (J86J-current); Nov 16, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 11Varanasi situationstill tenseVARANASI, Nov. 15: The situation in Varanasi remained “tense but under control” with no major incident reported since last night as the toll since Wednesday, rose to nine following the death of one more person, the district authorities said, reports PTI.The authorities did not relax curfew in areas under eight policestations and Lallapura area of Sigra police station.According to the police, an injured medical practioner, who was arrested during searches in Madan-pura, succumbed to injuries in the S.S.P.G. hospital here last night.Meanwhile, the police rescued nine people, including women and children, during the search yesterday.Intensive patrolling by the police, PAC and CRPF jawans continued in the curfew bound localities while senior officials constantly monitored the situation.The two companies of CRPF which reached here yesterday have already taken positions in Madan-pura, Reoritalab, Shival, Gauriganj and Jangambari areas.More than 375 persons have been arrested since violence erupted on November 8 over a religious procession.TOINS reports from New Delhi: Para-military forces should be deployed in Varanasi to control the communal violence. This was the messge given to the Friday noon congregation at Jama Masjid here, by the Shahi Imam’s son, Mr Ahmd Bukhari.He blamed the Bharatiya Janata Party, the Vishwa Hindu Parishad and the Bajrang Dal for the state of affairs. “Our community has not been allowed to live with dignity under the rule of any political party, be it Janata Dal or Congress,” Mr Bukhari said.The district administration has decided not to give any curfew relaxation in nine police station areas of the city tomorrow.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Army out in U. P., 13 killedThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 12, 1988; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1LUCKNOW, October 11 (UNI & PTI).THE army was catted out and shoot^aWsight orders were issued tonight in Muzaffamagar as violence erupted amah in the town and neighbouring Khatauli, leaving 13 people dead and about 70 injured.An official spokesman said the Prime Minister, Mr Rajiv Gandhi, was briefed about the situation by the home minister, Mr Buta Singh.Mr Gandhi has directed the state government to deal firmly with the situation and take stem measures to contain the violence, die spokesman added:Meanwhile, with the death of one. more person in stabbing incidents in Aligarh yesterday, the toll rose to two, the home secretary, Mr S. K. Tripathi, said.He said no fresh incident had been reported in Aligarh since the imposition of curfew yesterday afternoon.Mr Tripathi said curfew was lifted in. Mussaffernagar at 11.30 a.m. yesterday following an improvement in the situation. However, curfew had to beclamped again at 1 p.m. today following renewed clashes.Police reinforcements have been rushed to Muzzaffamagar and Khatauli, he said.The home secretary said two people were reported to have been injured in i Khatauli town in clashes today. | Curfew, which was lifted in Khatauli at7.30	a.m. today, was reimposed at j12.30	p.m.In Aligarh city, heavy police patrolling continued, and situation was ‘'peaceful and under control, Mr Tripathi said.Aligarh (PTI): The situation in curfew-bound areas in Aligarh city was tense today following the recovery of a mutilated body near Mayur Chand Dharamshala this morning.New Delhi: (UNI): The proposed march of Muslim leaders from Faizabad to Ayodhya on October 14 assumed a new dimension today with the hardliners refusing to accept the authority of the Babri Masjid move-Govt, hasn’t rejected finance panel reportNEW DELHI, October 11 (UNI): THE government today denied a report appearing in a section of the press that finance ministry has refused to accept the ninth finance commission report.The government has already accepted the finance commission report and its views in this regard had been placed in Parliament on September 2, it was offically statedReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Shoot orders in Aligarh; toll rises to 29SYED ZUBAIR AHMED The Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Dec 10, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 1Shoot ordersintollAligarh;risesto 29By SYED ZUBAIR AHMED The Times of India News ServiceALIGARH, December 9.DEATH and destruction continued for the third successive day in riot-tom Aligarh city even when shoot-at-sight orders were issued today. At least 50 people have lost their lives, mostly in police firing, since clashes between two communities began on Friday afternoon. However, the official toll stands at 29.Violence spread to the outskirts of the city today when members of two communities clashed with each other► Picture on Page 13at Hamdard Nagar and Jalalpur, hardly half-a-kilometre away from Aligarh Muslim University (AMU). The provincial armed constabulary (PAQ personnel opened fire to dis-. perse the rioters, killing at least five persons. Officially, however, only two deaths were reported from these localities.	.According to the deputy inspector-general of Agra range, Mr S. P. Singh, two sensitive police station areas have been handed over to the army. He refused, to name these areas. At least eight columns of troops are assisting the civil administration , round the clock. Last night, the army had staged a flag march in riot-hit areas, Mr Singh said.He confirmed 130 people have been injured, including 11 policemen and about 150 rioters were arrested in the past three days.Though the local administration claimed there was slight improvement in the overall situation, incidents of arson and stabbing have been going on since last night despite an indefinite curfew clamped in the entire city yesterday.Contrary to official reports, bloody clashes took place on the city(Continued on page 13)Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Aligarh violence claims 1The Times of India (J86J-current); Dec 26, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Aligarh violence claims 1LUCKNOW, Dec. 25 (PT1): One person was killed and seven others were injured, one of them seriously, when fresh violence broke out in Purnagar under the Sikandrarao police station in Aligarh yesterday, an official spokesman said here today.Members of two communities clashed with one another, opened fire and hurled bombs, the spokesman said.The injured were admitted to a hospital.No untoward incident was reported from any other riot-hit town, the spokesman said.Meanwhile, the Uttar Pradesh cheif minister, Mr Mulayam Singh Yadav, today visited the place of violence and met the injured people in the hospital and medical college.The chief minister appealed to members of all the communities to maintain peace and communal harmony.WOMEN STABBED:	Twowomen received stab injuries in the countinuing spell of violence in Ahmedabad today, but the other riot-battered areas of Gujarat remained calm.Stabbing was reported in Kalupur police limits of the walled city during curfew relaxation period, as a sequel to which the authorities continued the curfew.The situation in Godhra and Mod-asa towns and parts of Baroda, which were also affected by distrurbances, was reported to be peaceful.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Nine-Tailed Sea MonsterThe Times of India (J86J-current); Mar 7, 1950; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 7Nine-Tailed Sea MonsterDELAKE (Oregon), March 5: A 22-foot sea monster, covered with wavy hair from its cow-like torso to the tips of its nine tails, was found dead on the beach of this fishing village on Saturday night. The monster, so far unidentified scientifically, weighed about 1,00C pounds.—U.P.A.Quiet In U. P. TownsFrom Our Own CorrespondentLUCKNOW, March 6: tion in four towns inThe eitua-the Utto'Pradesh State, Aligarh, Moradafead, Pilibhit and Bareilly, was reported to be normal yesterday. There have been no further clashes.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Bihar town limps back to normalThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Aug 25, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of Indiapg. 19Bihar town limps back to normalThe Time* of India News ServiceSASAKAM, August 24: With the recovery of the body of a woman in Sagar locality, the death toll in this strife-tom town of Rohtas district has gone up to seven today. Two members of her family are reportedly missing.Senior police officials told TOINS that with the arrest of 48 more rumour-mongers today, so far 275 people had been arrested. They claimed that the situation was fast returning to normal. However, they said, night curfew would continue to remain in force;An assistant sub-inspector of police has been suspended for derel-' iction of duty. Similarly, show-cause notice has been served on a magistrate. The official sources said that all the magistrates had been pressed into mobile service.The sources said that no untoward incident had been reported during the past 24 hours. They, however, said that the situation was still tense. About 25 per cent shops were open today and a huge rush to purchase essential commodities was witnessed in markets.> The police said that a cook of the local Harijan hostel and three students had been arrested on the charge !of instigating communal tension.The report said that the most serious consequence of the action of the forest corporation has been a deadlock in the R$ 40-crore Valmikinagar hydel power project which envisaged production of 15 mw of power.The forest corporation’s order has affected the supply of stones and sand to the project. Another affected development project is the international Gandak canal which irrigates lakhs of hectares of land in eastern Nepal and Bihar.During the last rainy season, floodshad damaged the Done canid at various points rendering it useless. About Rs 2 crores had. been sanctioned for the repair of the canal but nothing could be done due to shortage of sand and stones. Even the construction of the road and bridge leading to the ONGG project site m the Done belt had been stopped due to this shortage, the report added. It is learnt that this is causing about Rs 1 .lakh daily loss to the national exchequer. Various development schemes under the PWD, the REO, and the Jawahar Rozgar Yojana have also come to a standstill.The report said that the forest department was indulging in such acts which were detrimental to the welfare of the region. It also pointed out that the Nepal government had encroached upon thousands of hectares of land in the Valinild sanctuary.He also called upon the people to protest against such policies of the forest corporation so that the clearing of the Gandak bed continued.Expressing shock over the policy, the Risen Sabha president of west Champaran district, Mr Rqjkausal Mishra, has stated that it would ruin the agriculture potential of north Bihar. He has urged the chief minister, Mr S. N. Sinha, to revoke the dangerous policy. -Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿7 killed in Bengal group clashesThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jun 25, 1988; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 17 killed in Bengal group clashesCALCUTTA, June 24 (UNI).SEVEN people were killed and several injured in a group clash at Kashimbazar In Murshidabad district today, official reports said.The Border Security Force and Eastern Frontier Rifles jawans were deployed in the area as tension mounted after the clash.An official spokesman told newsmen here the clash ensued when one group prevented another from holding a meeting in a particular place. The land belongs to the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI).The entire district was alerted and reinforcements were rushed to the area from adjoining districts.PT1 adds: Tension prevailed after about 200 people assembled at Berhampore to march to Katra mosque in Lalbagh which has been under the20,000 marooned in Tripura floodsAGARTALA, June 24 (UNI & PTI):More than 20,000 people were marooned as an unprecedented downpour lashed the capital and other parts of Tripura today.Hundreds of houses in low-lying areas and along the banks of the Howrah river have been flooded rendering more than 5,000 families homeless, according to official sources.Parliament sessionNEW DELHI, June 24 (UNI): The monsoon session of Parliament will begin on July 27, it was officially announced today. The session is likely to continue till September S.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Ten injured in Aurangabad clashThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 20, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 5Ten injured inAurangabad clashThe Times of India News ServiceAURANGABAD,September 19: The Bombay Police Act was promulgated here yesterday and security arrangements tightened, following incidents^ of stabbing and attacks on.According to the police,at least 1C persons were injured in the violence which broke out after, a dispute between . a motorcyclist and an autorickshaw driver.The police added that a group oiarmed men stormed the Sara fa area and damaged shops and stalls. Stabbing occurred in Shahaganj, Pandariba and Chelipura areas as well.Four persons were arrested in connection with last night’s clash between two groups, and at least 4S anti-social elements were arrested as a precautionary measure, the divisional inspector general of police, Mr M. N. Singh said today, reports UNI.Mr Singh told reporters this evening that rumours of violence spread quickly and gangs of youths threw stones damaging shops and wayside stalls. Anattempt to set ablaze a place of worshif was foiled by the timely intervention ol the police.Seven of the injured suffered slat wounds and a constable and a woman were injured in the stone-throwing, the inspector general of police said. The wounded have been hospitalised and the condition of one of them, earliei reported to be serious, was described as “out of danger”.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿POLICE FIRING IN DEORIA TOWNThe Times of India (1861-current); Mar 5, 1961; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9• ■ . ' • .• ■POLICE FIRING INDEORIA TOWN“The Times of India” News ServiceGORAKHPUR, March 4: Six people were injured in communal clashes at Padrana in Deoria District this morning following a Holi incident.When the police arrested the instigators of the trouble, a crowd collected and tried to force their release. The police fired three shots into the air to disperse the crowd.Indian Ambassador to Austria, Mr. Arthur Lai, was elected Chairman of the Plenary Commission of the U.N. Diplomatic Conference in Vienna on Friday.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew in UP townThe Times of India (1861-current); Mar 31, 1969; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Curfew in UP town“The Times of India** News Service VARANASI March 30: A 30-hour curfew was clamped on Maunath-banjan town in Amgarh district last night following clashes between two groups.Thirty people were Injured in the clashes and a subsequent lathi-charge.About 50 people, including some communist workers, have been arrested.Trouble started wheft two groups of students clashed near a cinema house in Jjbtc evening when the Mohar-rum procession was passing through.Some persons started looting shops and set them on fife.200 held' at Ganahati“The Times of India** News ServiceCALCUTTA, March 30:	Nearly200 people have been arrested after a disturbance over a Moharrum procession at Ganahati, in Chandernagore, yesterdavA dusk-to-dawn curfew has been imposed on the area for seven days.The curfew imposed on parts of Rishra and Maheshtala police stations of Hoogly district yesterday has been extended by another day.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿MAGISTRATE’S HOUSE LOOTEDThe Times of India (J86J-current); Sep 15, 1957; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 2MAGISTRATE'S HOUSE LOOTED Naga Raid In Kohima“The Times of India” News ServiceSHILLONG, September 14: A gang of armed Naga hostiles looted on Thursday the house of the Senior Magistrate of Ko-hima, headquarters of the Naga Hills District.About 40 men crept into the house of Mr. B. Chankakati under cover of darkness on Thursday evening during curfew hours and ransacked it for two hours.They removed the keys of the treasury, a radio set, a sewing machine and some cash.The raiders disappeared into the jungles before the police or the military could be alerted.Security Officer Killed“The Times of India” News Service JABALPUR, September 14: Subedar Kapoor, of the Central Ordnance Depot, Jabalpur, was stabbed to death two days ago by unknown persons, it is learnt.The motive of the crime is stated to be the tightening up of security measures by the deceased to prevent the illegal removal of Government stores from the Depot.Faction Fight: 4 Hurt“The Times of India” News Service JABALPUR, September 14: Four persons, including two girls, were injured in an altercation between two groups over some land in Rampur, three miles from here. .Words led to violence and lathis were freely used till the arrival of the police. Four persons were arrested.Life Term For MazdoorBy A Staff ReporterA 20-year-old mazdoor, Bahrain Kupuswami, wag convicted and sentenced to suffer life imprisonment by the Additional Sessions Judge of Thana, Mr. D. G. Gatne, on Saturday, for causing the death of Nasirkhan Bismillakhan, a resident of Katemanivli. near Ambernath along with two others.Another accused, Narla alias Abdul Kadar, was found not guilty and acquitted.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Dasara clashes in Cuttack; 24-hr curfewThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 21, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Dasara clashes in Cuttack; 24-hr curfewThe Time* of India New* ServiceBHUBANESWAR. Oct. 20.A 24-hour curfew was imposed in Cuttack today after group clashes during a Durga Puja immersion procession. At least 40 people, including several policemen, were injured and some shops gutted.The curfew, imposed in the early tours, has been extended till omorrow. According to the city tolice superintendent, Mr B. B. Vlishra, the situation, though tense, s under control.The incident took place when a procession of several Durga Puja committees were attacked by a mob with stones and glass bottles at 3.30 a.m. In the ensuing melee, the members left the idols and fled. Later, violence spread to other areas of the city. Till late evening today, the images could not be immersed due to the curfew and ither restrictions.MANGALORE VIOLENCE: The police fired one round in the air after a baton-charge failed to disperse a violent mob which disrupted a religious procession and threw stones on policemen here this morning, reports PTI from Mangalore.Prohibitory orders have been clamped in the city.The district magistrate, Mr R. Sridharan, who held a joint press conference with the superintendent of police, Mr Poojar, said a procession of Goddess Sharada was disrupted by miscreants early this morning. The mob attacked police, injuring a deputy SP, circle inspectors and sub-inspectors, damaged vehicles, set an autorickshaw on fire and stoned buildings, he said.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Four killed in BengalOur Special CorrespondentThe Times of India (1861-current); Mar 19, 1984; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Four killed in BengalBy Our Special CorrespondentCALCUTTA, March 18: The deputy police commissioner ofCalcutta port, Mr. V. K. Mehta, and his security guard were killed when widespread violence erupted in the communally sensitive Ba-barpur area today. A third person died when the police fired to quell violence.(According to PTI, four per» sons were killed in the incidents.)The trouble started when two dashing groups set fire to a place of worship and then attacked the police with deadly weapons when they intervened.Curfew was clamped on the area and para military and Eastern frontier Rifles personnel were inducted.The situation was officially claimed to be,binder control late in the evening,Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿LATE NEWSThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jan 12, 1953; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 5LATE NEWSU. S. * COLD WARNEW YORK, January 11: Mr. Eisenhower Is planning a commission to review American psychological strategy in the Cold War. according to an authoritative source.—P.T.I.-Reuter.PUNJAB TEACHERS’ STRIKE JULLUNDUR, January 11: The 'jeachers' strike in the Punjab took • new turn today when two members of the Punjab Board Teachers’ Union commenced a hunger strike in front of the residence of the State Education Minister, Mr. Jagat Narain.—P.T.I.CONGRESSMEN RESIGN PATIALA, January It : Seven members of the Patiala City Congress Committee, including the President, Mr. Puran Chand, have resigned.—P.T.I.JAMMU FIRING JAMMU, January 11: There was an exchange of Are today in Heera-nagar town, 42, miles from here, when the police tried to disperse a violent Praja Parishad crowd which threw stones and opened fire to disturb a public meeting which was being addressed by Bakshi Ghulam Mohammed, the Deputy Premier. No casualty was reported.—P.T.I.KARACHI RIOTS KARACHI, January 11: Communist-led riots in Karachi on Sunday night threatened to spread other places in Pakistan.— U.P.A.FOG OVER LONDONLONDON, January 11:	Fogclamped down on London as the result of which internal and international airline flights were cancelled on Saturday night. Thousands of Londoner's were forced to walk home from theatres and night spots.—U.F’.A.SOCIALIST CONFERENCE Rangoon, January 11: Rangoon is to be the headquarters of the new Asian Socialist Organisation, according to a decision taken today by the Asian Socialist Conference here.—P.T.I.-Reuter.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿HOLI RIOTING IN VIRAMGAMThe Times of India (1861-current); Mar 2, 1953; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of Indiapg. 1HOLI RIOTINGIN VIRAMUAM*3	Killed And 11 InjuredAHMEDABAD, March 1.Three persons were killed and 11 injured, three seriously, in a riot that broke' out in Viramgam. 40 miles from here this afternoon, according to a telephone message from the iolice sources received here tonight.Contacted on trunk telephone about the situation, a police source told P.T.I. that the riot was precipitated when a Hindu Mahasabha-led procession against cow slaughter passed through a mixed locality. Some stone-throwing by miscreants on the procession was reported, the source added. In the mob frenzy that followed the reported stone-throwning, three persons were killed and at least 11 were injured, the police source said.Some houses were set on fire by the mob and two fire brigades were rushed from Ahme-dabad to help the Viramgam Fire Brigade..CALCUTTA MOBS DEFY POLICE , Colour Throwing ’The. Time* of India New* ServfoaCALCUTTA, March 1? Caltfuf* tafs police stations were full 6t Moll merry-makers by midday yesterday	when 547 had -beenarrested. All were found carrying syringes and buckets of coloured water on the streets, in defianc* of the police ban.Mobile police vans, speeding through streets On which thera was little other traffic, picked them up.Despite	the elaborate polica':oreoautions and the various notifications designed to prevent ‘ex* cesses’ on this spring festival, coloured powder* and water wera • freely used on the streets. 'Trams and buses were off the streets till 1 p.m. after which th* city sobered down and returned to normal.P.T.I, adds: About SO persons received, minor injuries in “holi-brawls” in Calcutta and Howrah during the day. They were given first aid.Three hundred and fifty persons were taken into custody for sprinkling coloured waters on unwilling persohs and resorting to Holi revelling on high roads, which had been prohibited by ths police authorities.Kutch Budget Deficit“The Time* vf India News ServiceKUTCH MANDV1, March 1: The Kutch budget for 1953-54 shows a deficit of Rs. 4,32,52,000, estimated receipts being Rs. 37,48,000, and expenditure Rs. 4,70,00,000. A sum of Rs. 3,20,00,000 for the development of Kandla Port has been sanctioned, making the total expenditure Rs. 7,90,00.000.44 Arrests In BhopalBHOPAL. March 1: Forty-four persons were arrested here today after several clashes between members of two communities. Brickbats. and stones were freely exchanged in the fights. The trouble started in. a busy locality of the city when some miscreants threw stones and brickbats on a procession taken out in connection with the Holi festival.Dr. Shanker Dayal Sharma, Chief Minister, went round the city and appealed to' the people to remain calm ~ and • desist from Spreading false, rumours.—U.P.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Violence in BiharOur Special CorrespondentThe Times of India (1861-current); Feb 15, 1980; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1By Our Special CorrespondentPATNA, February 14.A TEENAGED cyclist knocked down a boy in a back lane in Giridih, the mica town, in south Bihar three days ago. Relations of the weeping boy and some passerby reprimanded the cyclist. One of them slapped him. Such incidents occur daily in every town.-But in Giridih, the incident led to a communal riot.The cyclist returned home and told his relations and neighbours about the incident. The following day, his sympathisers marched in procession to the area where the accident had occurred. Before the police could reach the spot, seven shops belonging to members of both communities were set ablaze. After the outrage, curfew was clamped down on the town.According to reports received here,the situation is now quiet. A “peace committee” has been visiting the affected areas to restore communal amity. The authorities have intensified patrolling in “sensitive” areas. ■The Giridih incident is symptomatic of the pervading climate of lawlessness in both urban and rural areas of the second largest state in the country.Though politicians have expressed concern at the deteriorating situation exemplified by the caste war in the Jehanabad sub-division of Gaya district, they do not hesitate to make capital out of it, j	__The Jehanabad incidents, in which 14 lives have been lost, have sharpened caste divisions. If relations and friends of victims or their caste sympathisers are not indulging in more violence at the moment, it is because of the intensified patrolling in areas with mixed populations. “But how long can we keep vigilance like this?The state has 65.000 villages with people of all castes living together for centuries, but now being virtually instigated to treat members of other castes as their enemies,” a top official remarks.The policy of reservation of jobs for the backward classes, when first adopted by the state government two years ago, provoked state-wide caste riots. Busps were set on fire, trains derailed and looted. After much violence, calm was restored. But in fact, caste animosities stirred up by the< reservation policy and the resulting violence had only been pushed underground. They threaten to surface again in the wake of the outrages at Parasbigha, where 12 shepherds were shot dead, and at Dohiya, where upper caste women were stripped and assaulted.The caste war or communal flare-ups are not the only menaces loomingContinued on Page 15 Column 4Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.Naxalite menace in BiharContinued from Page 1 Column 4large on the Bihar horizon today. The Naxalites are daily getting away with two to three murders on the average in the Bhojpur-Aurangabad-Gaya belt. They take out processions at night in some parts of Gaya district. An official confesses that there has been considerable increase in Naxalite activity recently.It is stated that the police posted in the area are not much effective because the desperadoes often mix with poor and landless people. A large-scale mooping-up operation would inevitably involve police encounters with desperadoes, in which some innocent people might also come to grief. “For this kind of operation, politicians have to give the green signal. The present government is not prepared to. give such sanction. Hence the desperadoes are having a field day,’' a police official says.CHARAN’S ORDERThe Naxalite menace had been largely checked during the emergency. Following police encounters, many desperadoes Were shot or rounded up. However, soon after the Janata government came to power, the then Union home minister, Mr. Charan Singh, directed the states not to deal with Naxalites like other criminals.Following his talks with the then Naxalite leader, Mr. Satya Narayan Singh, the Union home minister directed the Bihar government to release all Naxalites. Over 500 Naxalites, many of whom were known to have committed murders, were let off evenwithout a warning. Now all these Naxalites have become active and are terrorising the people in Bhojpur district and the adjacent Aurangabad-Gaya Belt.	_The people are up against another problem. Saddled with a government concerned more with the problem of survival * than with the grievances of the people, the drought-hit peasants, especially in the Chhotanagpur region, are getting a raw deal.Six districts in the Chhotanagpur region have been hit hard by the failure of the monsoon. Most of these areas have single-crop fields. Due to the drought, the underground water level has gone down. Wells in these districts have almost dried up. Relief supplies of which one hears much in Patna seldom reach these people. Their plight is likely to worsen in the summer.The Adivasis in Santhal Parganas and the Chhotanagpur region are becoming restive following a campaign that they are being exploited by the “outsiders” settled there. Two months ago, the Adivasis raided many farms and looted harvested paddy. They have been exploited for long by “deikus” (outsiders) and they now want all the “deikus” to leave their area or treat them as equals. After the election of their leader, Mr. Shibu Soren, in the last parliamentary poll they feel encouraged to take to the path of militancy.	.The situation is not serious at the moment. But it has all the potential of becoming a major law and order problem. The Janata government in Bihar seems least bothered about it,Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Army for GulbargaThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Mar 2, 1972; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1“The Times of India” News ServiceGULBARGA, March 1.THE Mysore government has for the immediate dispatch of an Army unit to riot-torn Gulbarga where curfew has failed to curb large bands of mobs indulging in large-scale arson.A dciachmenl of the Central Reserve Police from Hyderabad was expected to reach the burning town tonight where a 12-hour curfew' was clamped down at noon today.Thirty people were arrested for arson os a number of places of worship had been set on fire. One of the three wounded in yesterday's police firing died in hospital today.The disturbances broke out after an altercation between two groups over Holi revelries.The superintendent of police, Mr. A. J. Anandan. told newsmen thatsome collection of weapons had been recovered from a few residences in the Mijgori locality.The curfew imposed last night did not help ease the tension. Shouting from house-tops continued throughout last night. Members of one community, concentrated in the Mominpura area, were seen on their house-tops all night keeping a vigil.	.The situation took a turn lor the worse in the morning when about 2,000 members of the rival community assembled in front of Chowk police station demanding' the release of 50 people arrested on Monday.Finding that those arrested were not in custody there, they marched to Jagat police station where the police resorted to a mild lathi-charge and fired a few tear-gas shells to disperse the crowd.Meanwhile, miscreants had set fire to a printing press in Gazipura and a number of shops on Market Road and Temple Road. In the afternoon, the arson spread to other localities. Groups of students and urchins were seenlooting and burning shops and houses. A room adjoining a place of worship near Jagat Tank was set on fire.Two platoons of the Mysore ■ State Reserve Police have arrived from Bangalore and been drafted to the troubled spots. Efforts are being made to secure further police reinforcements.Mr. Gangadhar Namoshi, general secretary of the CPM and a candidate for the Gulbarga assembly seat, has demanded a judicial probe into the incidents.UNI and PTI add:The Army. requisitioned by the state government, is now on its way to Gulbarga which has been overtaken by waves of fresh clashes and arson for the second day today., At least two army columns, one j stationed., at Hyderabad and another j from Belgaum have moved out, according to the district superintendent of police, Mr. A. J. Anandan.TTie Chief Secretary to the Mysore government. Mr. R. J. Rebello, told P.T.I. tonight that the situation was now “well unde\ control.”Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿CURRENT TOPICS: Meerut Riots Greater OptimismThe Times of India (1861-current); May 27, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 8TUh IJttar Pradesh government evidently needs to explain why it did not pay sufficient heed to the warnings given by intelligence agencies a fortnight ahead about the likelihood of communal riots in Meerut on May 20. the day of polling.If the report that an alarm was sounded is true, it suggests that the slate government has yet to acquire a capability to maintain law and order in this trouble-prone city. Indeed,Meerut logged the maximum number of violent incidents in the state with as many as 20 dying in political clashes. That the poll violence soon took a communal turn is indicative of the failure of the city's community leaders to mobilise men and women of goodwill against trouble-makers.Tension mounted in the city as the curfew imposed earlier failed to have a sobering effect with incidents of arson, stabbing and firing continuing unabated because security forces were either overstretched or ineffectively deployed. The sheer helplessness reportedly admitted by the district magistrate and the SSP to contain violence due to lack of adequate forces illustrates the inability of the authorities to cope with recurring violence.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.Meerut RiotsGreater
﻿Phulwarisliarif still tenseOur Special CorrespondentThe Times of India (1861-current); Jun 13, 1982; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 13By Our Special Correspondent.PATNA, June 12.PHULWARISHARIF, a suburb of. Patna, is yet to recover from the trauma of the recent communal violence which claimed live lives.With most shops remaining shut during the day and the dusk-to-down curfew going into effect at night, the township is far from normal, official claims notwithstanding.Phulwarisliarif, a well-known Muslim centre of pilgrimage, is a minority-dominated area with a sprinkling of houses belonging to the majority community. Irohcially enough, last week’s rioitng broke out shortly after a meeting of the peace committee, which was attended by leaders of both communities.The trouble had its origins in a minor incident. On May 15, a lamb belonging to a Muslim butcher, while grazing in the fields surrounding the township, strayed into' the holding of a member of the majority community living in the adjoining locality of Ki-rorichuck. The lamb was captured. The case went up to the police who restored the lamb to the owner. But bitterness generated by the incident continued to foul the atmosphere.Within a few days of the lamb incident, a member of the major! ty community was found stabbed to death. According to leaders of the minority community, this murder was the result of enmity between certain persons living in Kirorichuck and Ranipur localities dominated by the majority community. The majority community, however, blamed it on the minority community.It would be unfair to say that the administration remained indifferent after this murder. In fact the officials tried to defuse the situation by calling a meeting of the peace committee, on June 3. But by the time this meeting was called there had been several other incidents involving attacks on members of both the' communities. Passions had been considerably roused. The result was that the participants in the meeting, instead of trying't6 sort out the pro-blem, used the occasion to indulge in mutual recriminations.According to Mr. Ayodhya Prasad Gupta, a cement and hardware merchant, who is a member of the peace committee, the meeting ended about4.30	p.m. Within an hour or so, several explosions took place in the main bazar. Mr. Gupta called some members of the peace committee and tfiey all went to the trouble spot. .Meanwhile, there were more explosions 'and the police from the neighbouring police station also appeared on the scene.Mr. Gupta said he and two other members of the peace committee were advised by the police to go back to their homes. A bomb landed in the compound of Mr. Gupta’s house soon after. Several bullets pierced the walls of his house. Mr. Gupta showed this correspondent what looked like rivets recovered from the bombs. He also^ displayed what he claimed to be a slug of a country-made rifle recovered from the wall of his house.'According to Mr. Gupta explosions continued for three hours.	'Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Calcutta ArrestsThe Times of India (J86J-current); Mar 11, 1963; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Calcutta ArrestsCALQUTTA. March 10: The police arrested over 500 ''persons for alleged violation of restrictive orders relating to the holi celebrations here today.A clash was reported from Khar* dah in Barrackporc /ub-division in which two groups clashed over sprinkling of cdlopred water. Twglve persons have been arrested.—P.T.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Fifty killed in Meerut riotingThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); May 20, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1The Times of India News ServiceMEERUT, May 19.SOME 50 people are believed to have been killed and many others injured and over 200 shops and commercial establishments set ablaze in two days of violence in one of the worst communal riots witnessed here.The army was alerted today and several affected areas were put under indefinite curfew. The Central Reserve- Police Force, the Provincial Armed Constabulary and the U.P. police were patrolling . the sensitive areas.A senior army official told this paper that they were assisting the local administration in handling the situation and that “the army will take full control if the situation gets out of hand.”The enormity of the situation could be gauged from the fact that Mrs Mohsina Kidwai, Union minister for urban development and the local MP, Mr Vir Bahadur Singh, chief minister, Mr P. Chidambaram, Union minister of state for home, and Mr Gopinath Dixit, state minister of home, all rushed to the city when the situation worsened in the second round of communal frenzy. Over ten people had died when trouble had erupted on the day of Shab-e-Barat here last month.Mr Chidambaram and Mrs Kidwai were dumb-founded when newsmen confronted them in the evening at the Circuit House. Despite having been briefed by the local senior police officials, Mr Chidambaram refused to comment on the situation. But he agreed to brief the press later. However, when around 8.30 again he was asked to describe the situation, he said he would rather not make any assessment.	'Though the district authorities put the death roll at only 13, inquiries withthe hospitals and mortuaries indicated that some SO people must have died in the communal strife. A senior police official revealed that the adminis-tration was expecting even greater trouble late tonight.PTI & UNI add:In all the curfew-bound areas of the sensitive old city, the police had to open fire a number of times to quell mobs which went on the rampage burning shops and hurling brickbats. Police posts were also attacked in several places and firearms snatched.At a number of places, policemen were fired upon from inside places of worship and in the Islamabad area of the town, people dug up trenches and took position to open fire on the police from all directions, the deputy inspector-general of police, Meerut, Mr Nathu Lai, said.He said only one death was reported yesterday and the rest of the killings took place today. The violence was continuing all late in the evening.Today’s violence comes barely a month after the group clashes in the city that left seven people dead.Mr Nathu Lai said the situation was much more serious this time.According to official sources there was tension in some parts of Meerut at the weekend following the killings of a bank employee over a landlord-tenant dispute. However, the police apprehended two persons whom they described as the prime suspects and the situation was brought under control.Police sources said a shop was gutted yesterday, probably due to an accidental short-circuit. But a rumour spread that it was a case of arson. Agitated by the rumours mobs went on the rampage stabbing one person and indulging in arson and looting.The home secretary said two petrol pumps and about 200 houses and shops were set on fire by miscreants.He said 200 persons had been arrested.The trouble, according to the home secretary, was sparked off in theChipiwada locality under the Kotwali police station last night when a coun-trymade bomb was burst and a wooden kiosk set ablaze near a religious place.Agitated mobs, set on fire three houses and hurled brickbats, injuring a scooterist.CUJRFEW IN OLD DELHI (PTI) Indefinite curfew was clamped on the entire walled city area this evening following clashes between groups ol youth who fought pitched battles in the narrow bylanes with stones and aerated water bottles.The police fired at least six rounds ir the air and lathi-charged the mobs foi over three hours before the situation could be brought under control.According to the deputy commissioner of police (north), Mrs Kiran Bedi, there were no casualties. However, unofficial reports said that several persons were injured in brickbatthrowing.Srinagar: The police today opened six rounds of fire in ithe air and burst tear-gas shells to disperse violent groups of youth belonging to the Jam-mat-i-Islami protesting against an alleged sacriligious book at Tral, 29 km from here.The youths clashed with the police at a number of places in the township and stoned buildings and passing vehicles, according to reports received here.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Mother, kids die in Kanpur firingThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Dec 13, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1ALIGARH, Dec. 12.FOUR persons were killed during the past 24 hours in different parts of the city.(According to PTI, the official toll has gone up to SI. However, unofficial sources put the toll at over 70.)A young woman who had gone out to buy milk in the Gandhi Bazar area was done to death this morning, Yesterday, six boys who ventured out for milk during the curfew period were chased by rioters in the Sarai Sultan area and two of them were killed.Sounds of gun shot and bomb explosions reverberated in the entire walled city last night. District officials were virtually kept on their toes by mobs.The heavy deployment of paramilitary forces in riot-prone areas has failed to instil confidence among the panic-stricken residents.A report lodged with Shastri Gate police station today said five people were dragged out of their mini-van on the Aligarh-Agra road two days ago and lynched by a mob, according to eye-witnesses.The audacity with which troublemakers are whipping up passions can be gauged from the fact that even eight days after the riots started, miscreants continue to take on the para-military forces in several areas. At Jamalpur, a group of criminalsfired at CRPF jawans. One person died in the ensuing exchange of fire. He was later identified as a notorious criminal of the locality.In Kanpur, the army was called out as five more people, including four members of a family, were killed in todays violence as the indefinite curfew clamped in the city continued. The army staged a flag march in several sensitive areas, reports PTI.The district magistrate, Mr Kapal Deo, said the four family members were killed in firing incidents. He said about SO people were injured and admitted to hospitals.Three children, two brothers and their sister, aged between nine and 12, were killed in the Chamanganj locality of the city while their mother succumbed to injuries in the Uhm hospital.Mr Deo said the situation wasReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.tense but under control. He said there would be no let-up in the curfew tomorrow. The police have arrestedover 300 people so far and recovered a large quantity of arms and ammunition.	,	wThe superintendent of police, Mr Arun Kumar, said one person was shot dead and a few cases of firing, arson and looting were reported in the city till late last nightAn unruly mob attacked two police outposts at Hiraman Ka Purwa and Phoolmati crossing in which over 12 police personnel, including three subinspectors and nine constables, were injured. The police fired at half a dozen places.The senior superintendent ot police, Mr Vikram Singh, said one sub-inspector and two constables have been suspended with immediateeffect)He said the sub-inspector, Mr Raj Singh, who was under training along with two constables, had fired upon in the Chamanganj locality in which four members of the family were killed.	_	.He said a magisterial inquiry has been ordered into the incident and stern action would be initiated against the erring inspectors and constables if they were found guilty.Mr Deo said the trouble beganwhen some persons of a particular community started threatening the police through the public address;cial Armed Constabulary (PAC). The police had to cut off the public address system in the places.The Janata Dal (S) general secretary, Mr Mahfooz Alo Wian, hasurged the Uttar Pradesh chief minister to withdraw the PAC from the riot-tom areas of the state immediately, says a report from New Delhi.In a statement here, Mr Khan said he had visited the riot-afTected areas of the state and had sent a report to the chief minister suggesting a number of steps including the withdrawal of the PAC. .Six prominent Muslim religious leaders today urged the Prime Minister, Mr Chandra Shekhar, to ensure protection to the minorities and curb the growing communal violence in parts of Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh.	,In a letter to the Prime Minister, the leaders including the Imam of Jama Masjid, Syed Abdullah Bukhari, Dr S. Kalbe Sadiq, and Mi Mohammed Muazzam Ahmed, the Naib imam of Fatehpuri Jama Masjid, said adequate compensation should be paid to the riot victims.The leaders also called for the withdrawal of the PAC from the riot hit areasTension was also reported from several towns of Bulandshahr district, including Khuija, Dibai andAnupshahr.	..In a curious development, white flags with messages of peace have.	nt/\n enmn hioh.rief. nillldReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿7 killed in Bengal group clashesThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jun 25, 1988; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 17 killed in Bengal group clashesCALCUTTA, June 24 (UNI).SEVEN people were killed and several injured in a group clash at Kashimbazar In Murshidabad district today, official reports said.The Border Security Force and Eastern Frontier Rifles jawans were deployed in the area as tension mounted after the clash.An official spokesman told newsmen here the clash ensued when one group prevented another from holding a meeting in a particular place. The land belongs to the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI).The entire district was alerted and reinforcements were rushed to the area from adjoining districts.PT1 adds: Tension prevailed after about 200 people assembled at Berhampore to march to Katra mosque in Lalbagh which has been under the20,000 marooned in Tripura floodsAGARTALA, June 24 (UNI & PTI):More than 20,000 people were marooned as an unprecedented downpour lashed the capital and other parts of Tripura today.Hundreds of houses in low-lying areas and along the banks of the Howrah river have been flooded rendering more than 5,000 families homeless, according to official sources.Parliament sessionNEW DELHI, June 24 (UNI): The monsoon session of Parliament will begin on July 27, it was officially announced today. The session is likely to continue till September S.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Police open fire in AhmedabadThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jul 9,1992; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 6Police open liremAhmedabadAHMEDABAD, July 8 (PTI): The police recovered die chaired body of a beggar, set afire by a mob in the India colony locality of the Bapunagar labour area in the city’s eastern part late last night, while one person suffered stab injuries in the Gomtipur labour dominated area.The police fired three rounds and lobbed 34 teargas shells to disengage a mob indulging in stone-throwing and arson in Gomtipur.Barring these incidents, the police said the situation in the curfew bound and other areas was largely peaceful.Curfew was relaxed in the worst riot-affected Dariapur and Shahpur 'walled city areas between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m.Petrol pumps remain shutBy A Staff ReporterBOMBAY, July 8: More than 400 petrol pumps in Bombay, Thane and Raigad observed a day’s token strike today to press their demand for better dealer’s commission.Of the 400 petrol pumps in the region, 265 are located in the city. Most pumps sold 20 to 30 per cent more fuel yesterday, the president of the federation of all-India petrol dealers, Mr Ajit Kamlani, said today. He, however, could not quantify the loss caused by today’s action.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Murshidabad simmers with communal tensionBose, ShikhaThe Times of India (1861-current); Apr 19, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 7Murshidabad simmerswith communal tensionBy SHIKHA BOSEThe Times of India News Servic BERHAMPORE, April 18.C'UMivnjJNAL lension in me /Murshidabad district of West Bengal has acquired a knife-edge quality. Rumours, fuelled by suspicions, are enough for a violent outbreak.m L/utiiMii, n was a luiuvui uuApril 10 of a Hindu being kidnapped that led to the clash between the twc communities. The process of restoration of normalcy on April 13 was jeopardised as a rumour has spread that a Muslim youth was missing since April 10.Even more alarming was that on April 8, the peace committee negotiations fell through and there was a clash at the meeting venue in the presence of policemen. The district magistrate, Mr D. Chakravarti, said the peace negotiations failed to resolve the problem created by cows eating up cultivated crops.The district superintendent ol police, Mr B. D. Sharma, pointed out that the Domkal incident indicated that any disagreement between individuals of the two communities could quickly flare up into a community clash. Every minor incident today contained the kernel of a majoi conflict, he added. The police were under strain because there was nc way they could handle the rumour: that were constantly afloat.Mr Sharma said that after April 10 even while he, along with the deputy inspector-general, Jalpaiguri range, and the district magistrate were damping at Domkal, thousands of Hindus mobilised across the river inNadia district and were preparing to cross the dry river bed to combat a mob of Muslims. The fact that no Muslim mob had collected was immaterial, because a rumour had spread in the predominantly Hindu Karimpur area opposite Domkal, that Muslims were preparing to attack Hindus.The residents of Berhampore said, there would be mobilisation by both communities as soon as a rumour spread. Political observers in the district pointed out that the level of, violence had increased and where earlier, sticks, knives and hatches were used, today bombs and guns were employed.Police officials admitted that firearms were freely available as there were illegal arms manufacturing units in the districtReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿COW SLAUGHTER CAUSES RIOT: 12 PERSONS INJUREDThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jan 9, 1954; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 5COW SLAUGHTER CAUSES RIOT 12 Persons Injured“The Times of India” News Service MEERUT, January 8: About a dozen persons were injured and property worth Rs. 5,000 was looted in a riot at Ghazia-bad on January 6, according to a communique issued by the District Magistrate, Meerut, this morning.The riot was a sequel to the slaughter of a stolen cow. Twenty-four persons, including six alleged to be responsible for the slaughter, were arrested, the press note added.The situation at Ghaziabad is now reported to be normal,.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Hands off KashmirOur Special CorrespondentThe Times of India (1861-current); Dec 7, 1978; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1By Our Special CorrespondentNEW DELHI, December 6.rE external affairs minjster, Mr. Atal Bihari Vajpayee, today cautioned the Pakistani “rulers” against “misadventures”, the consequences of which would not be good for them and their country- '	.Replying to questions, during a debate on a calling-attention mdtion in the Lok Sabha, he said such “misadventures” had not paid Pakistan any dividends in the past. On the other hand, they had led to the establishment of an independent Bangladesh,Agreeing with Dr. Karan Singh (Cong ), that the bogey of India and the issue of self-determination in Jammu and Kashmir were stridently raised in Pakistan whenever the rnlers there found the internal situation getting out of hand, Mr. Vajpayee said while India had nothing but goodwill for Pakistan, it wa£ maintaining all vigilance. “We Want a stable and prosperous Pakistan,” the external affairs minister said.country. “They are playing with fire”, he said.'Mr. Vajpayee said Jammu and Kashmir was an integral part of India. The question- -yet to be- settled about it was tjie continued illegal occupation by Pakistan of two-fifths of Jammu and Kashmir territory. The issue would be taken up with Pakistan whenever a comprehensive dialogue took place' between the leaders of the two countries.The external affairs: minister said India’s future was inexorably linked with Jammu and Kashmir.Mr. Vajpayee described the charge by Mr. Sougata Roy (Cong.) that India’s , foreign policy had been “weakened” in the name of good neighbourliness as baseless and without any foundation.said such distortions had begun appearing in 1973. He would investigate why no action was taken till recently to correct them.. The external affairs minister said a study by Mr.. Hector Gros Espicll special rapporteur, appointed in 1974 by. the UN sub-commission on the prevention of discrimination-and protection of minorities, the final report of„ which was presented to .the. subcommission in 1976, contained a list of 30 • territories “still awaiting settle-meet as regards the implementation of the United Nations - resolutions concerning the right to self-determination of'peoples colonial or alien domination.” Surprisingly, Jammu and Kashmir bad also* been included in that list.In their calling-attention notice, Mr. Chitta Basu (Forward Bloc), Dr. Karan Singh and Mr. S. Roy (both Cong.) referred to the reported distortion of facts about Jammu and Kashmir appearing in a recent report of the United Nations study panel.When this study came up for discussion at the 34th session of the commission on hunlan rights in Feb-ruary-March this year, the leader' of the. Indian delegation, Mrs. Vjjaya-lakshmi Pandit, expressed' strong reservations about it. Thereafter, India’s reservation was recorded as a footnote to the study. ••	■He urged the Pakistani rulers to coolly think Of the repercussions too much talk about self-determination could have in different parts of theirDescribing the distortions as “pernicious and malicious”, Mr. Vajpayee said that India had taken objection to them earlier and would pursue the matter with the UN secretary-general. We are taking up this question very seriously”. Mr. VajpayeeThe Indian delegate took strong exception to the report when it circulated as a document of the current session of the General .Assembly, reiterating that Jammu and KashmirContinued on Page 7 Column 1Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission., <*yContinued from-Page 1 Column 7to die rest of die current. session. ,At today's meeting ofthe.execu-tire, ; Mr. Cham SJaghts reported to have' favoured hnj^tsotuneat and. Mr. A.B. ^VajpayedJ proposed a reprimand. Butbothpf them are stat* ed-to' have- added that, they would go along with the majority.The privileges; .committee’s report presented to the house , on November 21 had held Mrs. Gandhi guilty for a breach of privilege and contempt of the Lok Sabha for allegedly obstructing four officials from collecting information for reply to a question tabled in the fifth Lok Sabha by Mr. Jyotirmoy Bosu (CPM) on Maiuti. 'The committee had also indicted Mr. R. K. Dhawan, additional private secretary to Mrs; Gandhi, and the former director 'of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI,), Mr. D. Sen, on the same’ grounds. The committee had left the form of punishment to the wisdom of the house.Under the rules of procedure andconduct of business, discussion on the ..privileges committee's report should be limited to 30 minutes. The relevant rule, W}H have to be •. suspended ' to < enable the proposed rix-hout-debate, on: the. stibiectV,'The list of’ business contains a- motion to' this-'effect.	;The debate will create: parliamen-■ ary' history of a sort This, is the first time ‘ that a former prime minister figures in a privileges committee indictment. ‘The first occasion when action taken against an erring member on grounds of breach of privilege was in 1951. By the time the issue tame up in the provisional parliament, the member, Mr. Moudgall, had resigned.	i. But at the instance of the then leader, of the Congress party, Mr. Jawaharlal Nehru, the member was expelled.	,In the second instance action was taken in., the Lok Sabha .against. Mr. Tul Mohan Ram, who' has since been convicted by a court..PTI adds: The leader of the Congress parliamentary party, Mr. Y. B. Chavan, said today that he was “individually and informally consulted by the Janata party on die proposed action against Mrs. Indira Gandhi.Asked what were his views, Mr. Chavan said he would express them in the Lok Sabha tomorrow.	.Mr. Jyotirmoy Bosu has for the house a substantive motion calling for her rigorous imprisonment during the current session of the house and her expulsion from the membership for the duration of the house term expiring in 1982.	.Mrs. Gandhi was re-elected to the Lok Sabha from Chikmagalur last month—rl9 months after she was voted out of office as the prime minister and. denied mandate by her home constituency of Rae Bareli.Mr. Morarji Desai has been asked by the members, of the Janata parliamentary party executive, to himself move a motion for the deterrent punishment of Mrs. Gandhi.He can do so by proposing an alternative to Mr. Bosu’s motion.Mr. K. Lakkappa, Congress member belonging to the Congress-Congress (I) reunion group, alone has suggested that the house reverse the findings of the privileges committee and take no action against Mrs. Gandhi.	-The authors of the other motions— all but one belonging to the Janata —suggest punishment ranging from reprimand to suspension of membership to imprisonment to imprison-ment-cum-expulsion. Among them, Mr. Saugata Roy, Congress member opposed to reunion with the Congress (1), suggests suspension of her membership until she tenders an unqualified apology.For Mr. Dhawan and Mr. Sen, , the punishment proposed by Mr. Bosu is rigorous imprisonment for the rest of the current Lok Sabha session. Seven alternative motions would have them awarded punishment ranging from reprimand to im-prisonment. ifar; ftathwani ' vrould nave their imprisonjrientended when they tender, an apology.Mr.' Lekkappa has no separate motion to coyer the two, but Mr. Saugata Roy is for their imprisonment. y ••• ■; . - ■ .■ ,y; •y ’' 'UNT-adds: At the JPP- meeting today, the younger members,, including Mr. - Rattan isingh :Rajda and Dr. Subramaniam Swamy, said. Mrs. Gandhi’s offence . and her totally unrepentent attitude” ’ deserved the strongest punishment. > When, some leaders referred to the possibility of her stagrng a comeback through a by-election even after expulsion, these members said the risk had to be taken.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Five Persons Admitted In Hospital: <span ...The Times of India (J86J-current); Oct 1, 1958; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1HYDERABAD, Sefoember[30.Five persons wee tdmillfid in hospital with injuries uid several others, uno ficially *ti-mated at 20, wen treats asoutpatient* for minor rtjurie*,1 the police ma'de a lai ii-charg< tins evening on a crowdl of antj< sow-slaughter demonstrators net: tbs Hyderabad Municipal Corport tkm.The iathi-charg* wits made wfcitit some persons became tmruiy and indulged in stone-throwing ,n which an Assistant Commisi iooer of Police, a police in pector, a subinspector and nine (ontablei were injured.	.The demonstration was to i nobi-lise support for ; iwami 1 ama-chandra Veer who is on a fa t for the fast 38 days demanding immediate ban on cow-sliughter by the Andhra Pradesh G.o'eminent,]The demonstrators had come in a procession to the Corpoiation. submitted a memormdum t > the Mayor and had Tece ved assu ances from him that the . Corporation would adopt a resolution it today’s meeting in support of their demand, they wer: waitini; outside -for the outcorre of the resolution when trouble started.When it, became mown tb at the Corporation had rejictcd by a majority vote an indept ndent me Tiber’s amendment to the resolution against cow-slaughter, some persons among the crowd sarted throwingstones in the direct notation hall.'on of tbjs Cor-Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Prohibitory orders in PimpriThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Apr 2, 1975; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 4Prohibitory orders in PimpriThe Times of India” News ServicePOONA, April 1: An order under; section 144, Cr, P. C„ was promulgated in the Pimpri area today, banning the carrying of lethal weapons, the assembly of five or more persons and taking out processions or morchas.The order was imposed following clashes between two communities in Pimpri yesterday. Minor incidents of looting and arson were also reported.Late last night, stray cases of stonethrowing and assault were also re-* ported.Twenty-four people have been arrested.The clashes were a sequel to a quarrel between students of the two communities a few days ago. 1 IReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Fresh violence rocks DelhiThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Nov 16, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Fresh violence rocks DelhiThe Times of India News ServiceNEW DELHI, Nov. 15.THE Prime Minister, Mr Chandra Shekhar, made a whirlwind tour of the riot-hit Sadar Bazar area following a fresh outbreak of violence in which 11 people were injured today. Yesterday’s toll of five went up to six with a sub-inspector succumbing to his injuries this morning.According to the additional commissioner of police, Mr S. K. Kain, violence broke out in the Qasabpura, Sarai Khalil Khan and Nawab Road areas in the morning. Mr Kain said persons from two communities had gathered on roof-tops and started throwing stones at each other and also at the police.	.The police lobbed 46 tear-gas shells and when this did not deter them fired warning shots. He Clarified that plastic bullets were used and 25 rounds were fired.the city police commissioner, Mr Vijay Karan, said the situation was brought under control in the afternoon. He said 240 people had beenarrested so far. They included violators of curfew. The situation would be reviewed tomorrow.Mr Karan said he had asked the Central government for 15 more companies of police, besides the five already deployed in the area. He explained that the entire troubled area had been divided into four sectors each headed by one assistant commissioner of police. Senior police officials were supervising the area.The police chief asked the Crime► Edit: Communal Provocation, Page 12;Pictures on Pages 7 & 13Branch of the Delhi police to inquire into the riots. The report would be made available within 90 days, he added.Liter in the day, Sadar Bazar police station was the scene of activity, as it became known by then that the Prime Minister would be visiting the area. There was heavy deployment of security even as the Special Protection Group (SPG) personnel scouted the area. The Lt-Govemor, Mr Arjan Singh, and the chief sec-(Continued on page 13)Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.Fresh violencerocks(Continued from Page 1)retary, Mr V. K. Kapoor, were also present.Along with newsmen was the city Congress chief Mr H. K. L. Bhagat, the former MP of the area, Mr Jagdish Tytler, and other local leaders. However, Mr Shekhar, who was accompanied by Dr Subramaniam Swamy, gave the slip to all by entering the police station through the back door. Once inside, he remained closetted with the Lt-Governor and Mr Karan for about half-an-hour.While walking out, Mr Chandra Shekhar held an impromptu press conference, much to the chargrin of security guards. Asked if the riots were a political conspiracy, he said, “1 don’t know whether it was a conspiracy. I don’t want to politicise the issue. All I can say is that every death saddens me.”The Prime Minister,, said those responsible for starting the riots would be punished. As local residents tried to explain how the provocative' speeches had instigated the violence, he said he knew about this and an inquiry was already on. Various government agencies are inquiring into this.When an irate resident demanded that Rs S lakhs relief should be given to the kin of the dead, Mr Shekhar said he would look into the matter.After this, he toured the area.lt was a car race. The Prime Minister’s convoy was followed by the SPG cars, which in turn were followed by press cars. After a couple of dangerous swerves, his convoy stopped in front of two persons who had wandered out.As the Prime Minister walked towards them, the security efficiently formed two quick tiers around him. When he asked about the welfare of the two persons, one of them with tears in his eyes, replied: “Sir, myDelhichildren have been killed.” The prime minister was taken aback. Consoling him, he said: “We’ll see that everything is taken care of by the evening.”After Mr Chandra Shekhar left, the person said his nephew had died of stab wounds.After this, the Prime Minister’s convoy drove around some of the affected areas where shops had been burnt and then circled back to Sadar Bazar police station. Coming out of his car he said, “I am satisfied with the steps of the administration and the police.” A few minutes later he left the area.In the melee that followed after the 'departure of the Prime Minister, local Congress leaders had a talk with the Lt-Govemor. Later, Mr Tytler said, he was surprised that a riot took place in the area. It had always been peaceful. According to him, the area had been tense after the rath yatra but the provocative speeches were the immediate reason behind the riots. Most of the people who indulged in rioting were from outside.Earlier in the day, Mr Kalka Das, Mr Vijay Kumar Malhotra and Mr Madari Lai Khurana, BJP MPs, vis-ted the area, according to police sources. They were accompanied by senior police officials. Sources said they were under the false impression that a gurdwara was burnt there.PTI adds:BARODA: One person was allegedly stabbed to death in disturbances in Vejalpur village of Pan-chmahal district late Tuesday night.According to police, the DSP, Mr Pramod Kumar, and the district collector rushed to the village on receiving the news to study the situation.The situation was completely under control and peaceful and no untoward incident was reported thereafter. The police claimed three persons had bran arrested in this connection.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Processionists turn violent, 50 hurtThe Times of India (J86J-current); Sep 8, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 6Processionists turn violent, 50 hurtSHIMOGA. September 7 (UNI): About 50 people, including the deputy superintendent of police, Mr Mahadeva Nayak, were injured when a religious procession turned violent here yesterday, the police said,They said the processionists threw stones on shops, damaging some of them. The police resorted to lathi-charge to disperse the violent crowd. Thirty people were also arrested.Prohibitory orders were clamped on the town till this morning. Meanwhile, intensive palrolling_of sensitive areas was on and the situation was under control^ the police said.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿One killed in city firingA Staff ReporterThe Times of India (1861-current); Nov 9, 1974; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1One killed in citu firingBy A Staff ReporterA 20-ycar-old man, Mohamed Kadir, was killed instantly when the police opened fire from muskets and revolvers to quell a riot between two . groups of peo le at Jogeshwari, a . Bombay suburb, late on Thursday . night.; The riot started when a boy from t one of the groups was attacked by four boys from the other group r following an altercation, the police ; said.. The boy who was attacked ran to-i wards his home at Mcghwadi and returned with several people armed t with aerated-water bottles and other • missiles. This sparked the riot.FIFTEEN INJURED' Vasu Kadam (20) and Shabir Ah. med Nathu (60), who were injured by - missiles during the riot, have been , admitted to the Cooper Hospital. ! Thirteen people, including six police; men, were injured slightly. .■ The police had to fire nine rounds 1 to control the riot which began*	around 11 p.m. and lasted till almost ’ 3.30 a.m. on Friday, the police said.. Of the 32 people arrested, five were alleged to have been caught red-•	handed while trying to set fire to a £ timber depot near the western express , highway.1 The police have banned the as-i sembly of more than five people in the disturbed area, which is being 1 patrolled by a pose comprising 40Q I police officers and men.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿STRAY ASSAULTS IN DELHI: 2 KILLED: 19 INJUREDThe Times of India (1861-current); Mar 20, 1950; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1STRAY ASSAULTS IN DELHI2	Killed: 19 InjuredNEW DELHI> March 19. two persons ; died and 19 were injured in stray assaults in Delhi today.The incidents occurred, when people were returning* from a meeting, organised, by the Hindu Mahasabha, in connection with I the East Bengal situation, it is offic ially learnt.One person was arrested.A communique issued by the District Magistrate late tonight said; The Hindu Mahasabha held a meeting this afternoon at the Ramlila grounds in connection with the events in East Bengal. Certain persons, on their way back from the meeting, made stray assaults on passers-by m the Turkman Gate and Chauri Bazar areas. The total number of people injured was 21. Of these two have died. The Injuries In other cases are not serious. The trouble lasted for a few ininutes only and was immediately localised. P.T.I.ARMED- PICKETS POSTEDPur special correspondent adds: A large contingent of armed police was on patrol duty at midnight in the disturbed areas to prevent trouble from spreading to other points. Armed pickets were also posted at important crossings and strategic points with magistrates standing-by in near-by police stations to cope with any emergency.A round-up of a .l suspicious' characters began in tie affected areas immediately after the disturbance had been brought under control. Police patrols 'made house searches in, combing the localities they went throughA conference of the senior officials of the local administration was held late on Sunday night at the residence of the Chief Commissioner to take stock of the situation and to consider what preventive measures were necessary to meet the situation.Several Muslim leaders including Maulana Hifzur Rehman, member of Parliament, went round the affected localities to restore confidence.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿7 DEAD, 100 HURT AS POLICE FIRE 209 ROUNDS ON VIOLENT ...The Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Nov 8, 1966; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg- 17 DEAD, 100 HURT AS POLICEFIRE 209 ROUNDS ON VIOLENTANTI-COW-SLAUGHTER MOBCurfew Clamped On Capital:Army Is Standing By“The Times of India* News ServiceNEW DELHI- November 7.JN the worst-ever orgy of arson an d mob violence in Delhi, seven persons were killed and more than 100 injured today when the police tired 209 rounds on a rampaging pr ocession of more than 100,000 anticow slaughter demonstrators in fro nt of Parliament House.Nineteen policemen, including two assistant superintendents, :ui inspector, a sub-inspector and a head constable were injured.One plainclothes policeman is reported to have died later of a gun-shot wound he received during the firing in front of Broadcasting House when he was carrying a bucket of water to put out a fire in the guard room.The Government immediately clamped down a 48-hour curfew and called out the Army to stand by and guard important public buildings and vital installations, while police reinforcements were brought in from adjoining States to patrol thewnoie ueini region.Hundreds of bad characters ! were arrested and tens of j thousands of demonstrators who had come from outside were I being pushed out of Delhi to j night.The anti-cow slaughter demonstrators who converged on Parliament Street from different parts of the city suddenly turned violent after Swami Rameshwaranand who was earlier expelled from the LokSabha for creating disorder in the House harangued then to enter Parliament House and prevent Ministers from going out.When the police lathi-charged them, the rampaging mob started attacking Transport House	and BroadcastingHouse in the vicinity and set fire to scores of motor vehicles and scooters parked there. The police finally opened lire to push	back the frenziedcrowd which was attacking them with brickbats and soda water bottles.BLIND	FURYThe retreating	processionists thenturned their attention on the United Commercial and Punjab National Bank buildings, before some of them proceeded to set fire to the nearby Gole post-office and others went to ransack the houses of the Congress president, Mr. K. Kamaraj, and the Minister of State for Supply, Mr. K. Raghuramiah.	.The rest of the crowd which withdrew in the direction of Connaught Place began attacking in blind fury cinema houses, shops, hotels and even wayside restaurants. They also caused extensive damage to street lights and other public property.The capital had never before witnessed such widespread arson and mob fury. At the height of this vandalism, a thick pall of smoke hung over the skies near Parliament House and the new complex of Government offices around it giving the impression of scores of fires raging at the same time.	.From the corridors of Parliament House, Ministers, M.P.s and others heard the dull thud of tear-gas shells and the crackling noise of gunfire as the frenzied demonstrators were fighting a pitched battle with the police and indulging in senseless destruction. They were appalled by the magnitude of this mob fury whipped up by theContinued on Page 9 Column 2Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.Demonstrating sadhus surge forward in a bid to break the police cordon on Parliament Street onMonday.Government Had No Inkling Offanatical organisers of the anti-cow slaughter demonstration.After Parliament Street was finally cleared, it. looked like a battlefield iitterecl with broken glass and brickbats and burnt out shells of abandoned motor vehicles. The dead and injured were promptly picked up by the police, but the road remained stained with blood spots as a grim reminder of this unprecedented tragedy in front of Parliament.TRAGIC HAPPENINGSLater iu the aftemcon, the Union Cabinet held a meeting to review the law and order situation in Delhi. It decided to impose a ban on demonstrations' and processions within a radius of two miles of Parliament House.they tried to ransack the newly-opened Super Bazar and some adjoining shops and restaurants.Late in the evening, the Lieutenant-Governor. Mr. A. N. Jha, held a press conference lo give an account of the day’s tragic happenings. Me had to face a barrage of questions from newsmen about the precautionary steps taken by the Delhi administration. He admitted that the Government had no inkling of any plan to create trouble in the wake of the procession of the anti-cow slaughter demonstrators near Parliament House.The Union Home Secretary, Mr.L.	P. Singh, however, said that the Home Ministry was aware of the possibility of violence and. prepara-lions had been made to meet such an eventuality.occasion “when we are dealing with enemies within.” They did not realise that the countries which were ill-disposed towards India and who had their agents here would take a great deal of delight at the disturbances,Mr. B. Tandon. Deputy Commissioner of Delhi, said that the procession was organised by a body formed by representatives of a number of all-India organisations. Among those who had come to him to make arrangements were local office-bearers of the Jan Sangh, and the Arya Samaj.The Deputy Commissioner announced late at night that the curfew imposed at 3 p.ni. today would be lifted at 7 a.n], tomorrow'.A prohibitory order under Section 144. Cr. P.C. would be in force from 7 a.m. tomorrow until further orders.The order bans the assembly of five or more persons in the city limits of Delhi and New Delhi.P.T.I. adds.’ Many women and children took shelter in the “Press Trust of India” building. Stones fell also in and around it.A number of chappals and shoes were seen lying on the street after the firing was over.A section . of the department of parliamentary affairs dealing with the implementation of assurances, was burnt by the mob. The records in the section were destroyed. Three companies of the army comprising about 400 personnel were patrolling the ,city tonight along with the mounted police.U.N.I. adds:	Some demonstratorscame prepared for violence and they were found carrying petrol cans and torches.Before the protagonists • of cow protection resorted to this wanton violence, a mob of students evidently incited by them attacked a .cinema house in old Delhi and set. fire to a bus near Irwin Hospital. They later marched towards New Delhi whereMr. Jha said: “1 take the fullest responsibility for having been too patient with the lawless elements. My hopes have' been belied. I assure you that these elements will not find any quarters from now on.”He said that this was a melancholyParliament Street shortly after the police firing on Mondav.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Symbolic ProtestThe Times of India (J86J-current); Oct 10, 1962; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 3Symbolic ProtestCOPENHAGEN, October 9: The ship, ‘Everyman 3”, making a cruise from London to Leningrad in a symbolic protest against all nuclear tests, put in at Copenhagen yesterday.The ship’s captain, the American professor, Mr. Earle Reynolds, said on arrival here that the Soviet Union had not yet issued visas to the ship’s crew. He hoped to obtain them in Stockholm but if the visas were not forthcoming, he would turn the ship towards Leningrad anyway.—A.F.P.Riot Toll MountsKOZHIKODE, October 9: The death-roll in yesterday's noting between two communities of fishermen in Ve I lay i I near here has risen lo four.One more person died in hospital today and a body was found lhi-morning at the scene ol riming.According to the latest information 27 persons were admitted to hospital with injuries, 'I lie condition of one ol them is stated lo he serious.Police pickets continue to he posted in the disturbed area and, according to the police, the situation is quiet and under control.—P.T.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Firing to quell Gujarat riotersThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 29, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 13Firing to quell Guiarat riotersThe Times of India News Service BARODA, September 28: The police fired in the air and burst teargas shells to disperse rioting mobs in the Mandavi area today.The police said the trouble started when a group of people came out of a place of worship after the afternoon prayers and allegedly stoned some shops.The police rushed to the spot and burst 22 teargas shells and later fired three rounds in the air to quell the riots. While there was no report of injury in stone-throwing and firing, the deputy police commissioner, Mr Pramod Jha, sustained injuries when an empty teargas shell hit him. He was discharged from the Shri Sayaji general hospital after first aid.The situation was soon brought under control and the police arrested several rioters. The city later remained tense and the shops did not reopen for the day in the area.The other parts of the city, meanwhile, remained peaceful with night curfew continuing in some pockets The trouble broke out in the Mandavi area even as the police were heaving a sigh of relief after the Ram “rathyatra” led by the Bharatiya Janata Party president, Mr L. K.Advani, left the city this morning after a night haft here. Barring a couple of minor incidents of stonethrowing in the Vadi area, allegedly by those who were returning after attending the BJP’s public meeting last night, the procession passed off peacefully in the city.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿6 hurt in Kanpur Muharram clashThe Times of India (1861-current); Jun 22, 1994; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 156	hurt in KanpurMiiharram clashKANPUR, June 21 (UNI): Six eople, including two railway dice personnel, were injured 'hen Muharram processionists at-icked the Central Railway station, police station and offices of the ailway police and Railway Mail iervices (RMS) here last night, the dice said.The processionists (Pagis) carry-ng swords and knives as part of the nouming, also damaged and set on ire more than 12 vehicles after umours spread that two Pagis had>een arrested.The Railway police super-ntendent, Mr V.K. Tewari, told eporters that after rumours of the irrests spread, tension mounted in he area and the processionists stacked the GRP office and thelail Bazaar police station. They ittacked the police personnel in the K>lice station with swords injuring hree of them. They also took away ash at the RMS and burnt three vehicles parked outside and dam-iged many others.Top ultra shotCHANDIGARH:	KamailSingh alias Kailey, acting chief of the “Bhindranwale Tiger Force of Khalistan” (BTFK), was killed in an encounter in West Bengal on Tuesday, the Punjab police said, reports UNI.A police party from Fatehgarh Sahib district, with the help of the West Bengal police, engaged Kamail Singh in an encounter on the outskirts of Calcutta this afternoon.A resident of Chhota Samana village, Ropar district, Kamail Singh was responsible for more than 200 killings.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿One dies in Madras group clashThe Times of India (1861-current); Apr 16, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 9One dies in Madras group clashMADRAS, April 15 (PT1): One per attacked another, leading to the clash, son was killed and 20 were injured in which soda water bottles and stones when members of two communities were freely used, clashed in the Pulianthope area in Thirteen policemen, including an north Madras last night.	assistant commissioner, were amongi ne cny ponce commissioner, ivi those injured.W. I. Davaram, told newsmen toda; Six shops, a house and five police that three persons received stab in vehicles were damaged, juries, one of whom died in hospita Heavy police pickets have been post* this rpoming. He said 92 persons o ed in the area and the situation is 'well both communities had been arrested, under control’, the police com-Earlier, RSS volunteers had takei missioner said. He warned that severe out a procession in the area, beatinj action would be taken against those drums as it passed three places o who disturbed the peace in the area, worship, to which objection was raised Mr Davaram said the police took At that stage, matters were sorter two,hours to bring the situation under out through elders andjtplice officials control, but did not resort to tear-gas. But later, around 10 p.m., one grouj lathi-charge dr firing.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Mob violence, arson near AhmednagarThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jul 31, 1983; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9Mob violence, arson near AhmednagarAHMEDNAGAR, July 30 (PTI): Normalcy was restored today m Puntamba township, about 10 km. north of here, after a flare-up of mob fury and arson yesterday evening, the police said,The trouble arose over alleged attempts yesterday afternoon at removing an idol on the banks of the Godavari near the township. A group of angry residents collected and started throwing stones, the police said,A motor-cycle and a liquor shop were set ablaze later by a mob of 500 which also ransacked the guest house of a place of worship in the township, the district superintendent of police, Mr. Dhananjay Jadhav, told PTI today.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Non-Congress Govt. for Pondi likelyThe Times of India (J86J-current); Mar 11, 1969; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Non - Congress Govt.	forPondi likelyPONDICHERRY, March 10.PONDICHERRY is likely to have a non-Congress Government for the first time since the merger of this former French settlement with India, but it is too early to surmise about the future pattern.Mr. V. Subbiah, the Right Communist leader, who retained his seat in the Modeliarpeth constituency, told PTI tonight that his party would take a decision in a day or two about joining a possible coalition with the DMK with a common minimum programme.His party would continue its support for forming a non-Congress Government, he said.The Congress suffered a major setback. A top Congress leader, Mr. V.Venkatasubba Reddiar, who was twice Chief Minister of Pondicherry, lost to the DMK candidate, Mr. D. Rama-chandran, by 152 votes in the Netta-pacom constituency.With the last result of yesterday’s mid-term elections to the Assembly announced at midnight, the final party position was:	Dravida MunnetraXazhagam:	15, Congress:	10:	RightCommunists: three and Independents: two.—P.T.I.Mob clashes with police: 25 injured•“The Times of India” News ServiceAHMEDABAD. March 10: Nearly 25 persons, including ten policemen, were injured in a violent clash between a 3,000-strong mob and armed policemen near Kalupur tower in Ahmeda-bad this evening.A police sub-inspector, attacked with a dagger, was reported to be serious in the civil hospital.The police made a lathi-charge and burst at least ten tear-gas shells to control the mob which indulged in heavy stone-throwing.The Government has ordered an inquiry into the incident.The trouble began when a police vehicle dashed against a hand-cart carrying religious scriptures of a minority community. A small crowd standing nearby demanded apology from the policemen for the alleged “sacrilege** Tempers were frayed as the policemen refused to oblige the mob which soon swelled to thousands.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿HOLI REVELLERS FIRED AT: ONE KILLED, THREE HURTThe Times of India (J86J-current); Mar 5, 1961; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 12HOLI REVELLERS FIRED ATGAYA, March 4: One person was killed and three others were wounded when some persons opened gun-i'iro on a procession of holi revellers in the village of Manikpur in Belaganj thana of Gaya District last night, according to an official report received hero today.On receipt of information, a contingent consisting of 100 armed policemen was immediately rushed to the scene from Gaya to restore order.The District Magistrate of Gaya, Mr. P. P. Nayyar, also rushed to the village and is camping there.The situation was officially described today as “well under control, though tension persists.”The persons involved in the shooting were reported to have fled from the village. The district authories have issued orders for attaching the properties of 15 absconders who are wanted in this connection.Manikpur is a small hamlet about 18 miles from Gaya town.—P.T.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿NEWS FROM DISTRICTSThe Times of India (1861-current); Aug 13, 1955; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 9Cash Allowance StoppedBA1RODA SA1RDARS‘The Times of India” Mews ServiceBARODA, August 12:	Thecash allowance given to 1,000 sardars and others in the former princely States of Baroda and Chhotaudepur was stopped from August 1 when the Miscellaneous Alienations Abolition Act came into force.	.The cash annual allowance used to amount. Rs.. 10 lakhs. The Government will give the sardars 20-year bonds varying from three to seven times the allowance received so far by them. The Government will, in future, charge full assessment on their lands. The land revenue collected from the sardars is expected to amount to Rs.. 50 lakhs every year from Baroda district.“Dead” Comes To Life“The Times of India” News ServiceKOLHAPUR, August 12: An old woman, who was considered “dead” by her relatives at Thikpurli village, near here, came to life when she was being given “the last bath” on Tuesday.It was reported that the woman moved her limbs when her relatives poured warm water on her. Soon she began talking.Six Held In Sholapur“The Times of India” News Service SHOLAPUR, August 12: Six men were arrested here today on suspicion of being members of a gang of persons who had thrown stones at a funeral procession.The procession, which was accompanied by music, was attacked near a mosque in Budha-var Bazar Chowk, it was stated.Litterateurs- To Meet“The Times of India” News ServiceKARAD, August 12: A conference of litterateurs of North Satara District will be convened in November this year, under the auspices of the Karad Literary Association.A reception committee, with Mr. Bhaiyashatri Watve, has been set up to organise the conference.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Bharuch curfewThe Times of India (J86J-current); Feb 9, 1993; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 10Bharuch curfewAHMEDABAD: Indefinite curfew was imposed on Monday morning in Bharuch town in south Gujarat following the outbreak of fresh violence since late on Sunday night which claimed two lives and left at least three injured, reports UNI.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Calcutta violence claims twoThe Times of India (J86J-current); Oct 17, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 13Calcutta violence claims twoCALCUTTA, Oct. 16 (PT1): At least two persons were killed and seven others, including three police personnel, injured in mob violence and subsequent police firing in two separate incidents in West Bengal’s Jalpaiguri and Nadia districts in the last 24 hours.A senior police official told newsmen today that an altercation between two communities at a fairground led to'a group clash at Banarhat Bazar in Jalpaiguri yesterday.Amarsinh fails to appear in courtSURAT, October 16 (UNI): Mrs Gajaraben Chaudhary, the first wife of former chief minister, Mr Amarsinh Chaudhary, wailed for two hours in Vainat Vyara Court yesterday for her husband to appear before the court, but in vain.Mr Chaudhary did not turn up because the Ahmedabad police failed to serve on him the summons that were issued in response to a petition filed by Mrs Gajaraben Chaudhary, challenging her husband’s second marriage to Neesha -Gamit.The judicial magistrate of Vyara,Ms V.S. Dave, on Tuesday extended till November 22 the serving of the summons following the failure of the Ahmedabad police to communicate to the court whether they had issued summons to the former chief minister, his second wife and three others.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew extended in AhmedabadThe Times of India (J86J-current); Oct 13, 1969; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 7Curfew extended in Ahmedabad“The Times of India” News ServiceAHMEDABAD. October 12: Curfew lias been extended in Ahmedabad till tomorrow and it will be in lorcc between 1 a.in, and 5 a.m.While the situation in the city was genetally peaceful, some tension prevailed in Sarkhej village where a call lor a hartal had been given in protest against the detention of 29 people on l-riday night. Iliese men had been .arrested In a. clash when an alleged attempt was made at midnight to set lire to'a place of worship.However, the hartal call was withdrawn alter a meeting of the local peace committee.I he sarpaneh ol the village. Mr.Durgashankar Trivedi. asked the people to help the army maintain peace.I he detained people w ere released.Th city police took into custody five people on Saturday lor violating the ban and curfew orders. Another man was arrested .for inciting people to commit offence.	’Mahasabha attacks appeasement policyJAIPUR. October 12: The working committee of the Hindu Mahasabha today adopted a resolution holding the Central Government responsible for the riots in the country.. It sard the patronage hcstpived by the Prime Minister.on- ihe Muslims to enlist the support of their legislators in her confrontation with her colleagues in the Congress and the policy of appeasement followed by her Government had fanned the fire of Muslim aggression’’ in Ahmedabad and other towns of Gujarat.Sheikh, Dinesh call on Badshah KhanNEW DELHI, October 12:	KhanAbdul Ghaffar Khan and Sheikh Abdullah met over a dinner arranged by Miss Mirdttla Sarabhai at her residence here tonight.The meeting lasted more than two hours.Although both sides refused to divulge the nature of the talks, it is understood the Sheikh expressed his views on the political situation in Kashmir.In ihe evening, the External Affairs Minister. Mr. Dinesh Singh, called on Badshah Khan.—U.N.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Indore riots claim 22The Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 15, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1The Times of India News Service BHOPAL. October 14.IN the worst-ever expression of communal divide in Madhya Pradesh, rioting broke out in the commercial capital of the state — Indore — this afternoon, claiming at least 22 lives. Unofficial reports from Indore, however, put the toll much higher.Official sources here said the death roll was 16, and that 63 people were injured. Curfew was clamped initially on eight police stations areas at Indore. Later, it was extended to the entire city, and the neighbouring cantonment town of Mhow. The army staged a flag march.There was hardly anything unexpected about the violence that erupted today for the second time in •a fortnight in the Malwa region of theitatc. Tension was visible even last night.However, the district adminis-. tralion, though forewarned by some citizens, took the situation rather, lightly.	■ ,According to official sources, the. violence started around 11.30 a.m. today with the bursting of crackers at; the rear-end of the nearly 30,000-J strong barawafal procession. This; triggered off a stampede, and there., were clashes between two cook munities. Country-bombs, pistols, and other types of arms were used freely. Reports said there were piched battles between the groups and that the police were nowhere to be seen at several places.The communal frenzy saw huts, shops, even fire tenders become targets of attack. More than 150 huts and unaccounted number of shops were burnt. At least five fire tenders were also burnt	.The worst-hit areas in Indore were Jawahar Mare, Bombay Bazaar; Mukeripura, Chhatripura and Ra-jwada.A meeting of senior officials was held here in the' evening. All the districts in the state were alerted aiid religious processions were prohibited.	v .A spokesman of the state government said the organisers of the processions had given an undertaking that no provocative slogans would be raised. Neither would any arms be carried.	'Indore (PTC): The Madhya. Pradesh chief minister, Mr Motilal Vora, who rushed here from Bhopal after an emergency cabinet meeting, tonight ordered a judicial inquiry into the outbreak of violence. 'Mr Vora also announced ex-gratia payment of Rs 20,000 to the families ofeach of the dead and Rs 5,000 ea$ to the injured official sources saidReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew on in HyderabadThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jul 25, 1984; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Curfew on in HyderabadThe Times of India News Service ]HYDERABAD, July 24.INDEFINITE curfew was clamp* ed in six more police station, areas in the Old City, as tension continued to grip Hyderabad following violence marking Mahan* kali (Bonalu) festival on Sunday.Two groups oi people clashed near the Charminar area yesterday and several cases of stab injuries were reported. Fifty people, including 20 police personnel, were either injured in stone-throwing or stabbing when a “Bonalu” festival procession was passing by the Charminar. One de-puly commissioner of police and four assistant commissioners were among those injured. .The police have, so far, rounded up 200 people for various offences.Addressing a press conference late last night, the commissioner ot police,Mr. K. Vijayarama Rao, said that the police opened four rounds of fire at two places and resorted to lathi-charge at eight others between Moghulpura and Charminar in a bid to check violence. He said that the 10,000-strong procession was often checked for weapons. He claimed that the violence was mostly confined to stone-throwing and use of lathis.Mr. Vijayarama Rao said no curfew passes were issued yesterday. The main roads and the national highway leading to Vijayawada were exempted from curfew.The BJP MLA, Mr. A. Narendra, is said to have rushed to the Char-minar police station with an iniured person on his shoulders. The injured person was taken to a hospital in a police jeep in five minutes. However, as the violence increased, the police readied more vehicles to shift the injured to hospitals.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Ten injured in Aurangabad clashThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 20, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 5Ten injured inAurangabad clashThe Times of India News ServiceAURANGABAD,September 19: The Bombay Police Act was promulgated here yesterday and security arrangements tightened, following incidents^ of stabbing and attacks on.According to the police,at least 1C persons were injured in the violence which broke out after, a dispute between . a motorcyclist and an autorickshaw driver.The police added that a group oiarmed men stormed the Sara fa area and damaged shops and stalls. Stabbing occurred in Shahaganj, Pandariba and Chelipura areas as well.Four persons were arrested in connection with last night’s clash between two groups, and at least 4S anti-social elements were arrested as a precautionary measure, the divisional inspector general of police, Mr M. N. Singh said today, reports UNI.Mr Singh told reporters this evening that rumours of violence spread quickly and gangs of youths threw stones damaging shops and wayside stalls. Anattempt to set ablaze a place of worshif was foiled by the timely intervention ol the police.Seven of the injured suffered slat wounds and a constable and a woman were injured in the stone-throwing, the inspector general of police said. The wounded have been hospitalised and the condition of one of them, earliei reported to be serious, was described as “out of danger”.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿STONES THROWN ON PROCESSIONThe Times of India (J86J-current); Mar 6, 1957; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9STONES THROWN ON PROCESSIONMrs. B. Mehta HurtIn Bhavnagar- .....' ■ ~BHAVNAGAR, March 5:	Aprocession taken out in honour of the Congress President, Mr. U. N. Dhebar here yesterday was pelted with stones and the wife of Mr. Balwantrai' Mehta, former General Secretary of the Congress, and other workers were slightly injured.Mr. Dhebar had arrived here on an election campaign in the two constituencies of Mahuva and Talaj a where a keen contest is expected between the Congress and the opposition parties. Mr. Dhebar left for Mahuva constituency today.About 500. merchants from Bhavnagar and the surrounding villages have also left for Mahuva on ah election campaign for the Congress. Polling in Mahuva and Wankaner constituencies will commence tomorrow.Prince Rasik Kumarsinhji of former Wankaner State and Maharaja Mahendrasinhji of former Morvi State have launched a vigorous election campaign, doing door-to-door propaganda and appealing to the people to vote for the Congress—U.P.I.Election Clash: 3 HurtGURGAON, March 4: Three persons were injured in a clash between supporters of the Congress and the Jana Sangh here last hight. The trouble arose when Congress ,. workers were going round the town proclaiming the victory of Mr. Mohammad Yasin Khan from the Fe-rozepore-Jhirka constituency.The police rushed to the scene and restored order. No arrest has so far been made.—P.T.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Stabbing spree continues in SuratThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jan 20, 1993; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Stabbing spree continues in SuratThe Times of India News ServiceSURAT, Jan, 19,'T'lTERE was just no let-up m J. Surat violence today as the slabbing spree in different areas continued unabated with setting afire of houses, shops, vehicles and group clashes.In a ghastly incident in the Barahajari Mohollo in Naripuraarea, at least two persons were roasted alive when about a dozen odd houses were torched.-Tension became heavy in the air as the funeral procession of the youth killed in yesterday’s firing was taken out this afternoon in the area. The crowd which had assembled went berserk torching the houses/Both the persons killed were charred beyond recognition. The police also recovered one body from the Tapi river today. If this body is taken into account, then the total death toll in the city since Sunday goes up to eight.The day began with palpable tension in'the air following last night’s violent incidents in Nanpura area in which at least two' persons had lost their lives. A 60-ycar-old fruit vendor was slabbed to death on the Adajan Road near the new bridge this morning. Simultaneously two other stabbing incidents look place in the Adarsh Society on the posh Atthwa Lines area which had so far remained unaffected. Ironically one of the stabbing took place in close prox-.imity to the Umra police station.Tiwari nominatedCWC memberThe Times of India News ServiceNEW DELHI, January 19: The senior Congress leader, Mr D. Tiwari, was today nominated as a member of the Congress working committee (CWC), setting thf tone for party reorganisation.The Congress spokesman, Mr V.N.	Gadgil, said the party president, Mr Narasimha Rao, made the nomination after a detailed discussion with Mr Tiwari this morning regarding the need to rejuvenate the party to face the challenge of communal forces.Other Congress sources said Mr Tiwari is likely to' be made vicepresident or the working president of the party to bring about necessary changes in the party organisation.With Mr Tiwari’s induction into the highest policy-making body of the Congress, there, are now three vacancies left in the 20-member CWC.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿10 killed in U.P. mishapsThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jul 6, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Firm W. Bengal Steps Against Miscreants: POLICE OPEN FIRE TO STOP ARSON, LOOTINGThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jan 11, 1964; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 1Firm W. Bengal Steps Against MiscreantsPOLICE OPEN FIEE TO STOP ARSON, LOOTINGA'“The Times of India” News ServiceCALCUTTA, January 10.N order was issued tonight by the West Bengal Chief Minister, Mr. P. C. Sen, for strict measures against miscreants in areas where some cases of arson and looting occurred today.The poiice opened fire in four places to bring the situation under control and imposed dusk-to-dawn curfew in eight places in 24-Parganas and Nadia Districts.The situation in the border districts of 24-Parganas and Nadia suddenly deteriorated from last night following the crossing over of members of the minority community from Khulna and Jessore Districts, in East Pakistan.The Pakistani Government’s reported action to seal the border was viewed with grave anxiety by West Bengal Government circles.500 DETAINEDThe incidents were confined to certain pockets in the State and several contingents of armed police were rushed to those areas to deal with the situation. Since yesterday more than 500 persons have been detained under the West Bengal Security Act.The Chief Minister, who was away at Bhubaneswar, cut short his stay there and on his arrival here today announced that the Government was determined to take strong measures against anti-social elements. He said an “order has been issued to the police to open fire where people are seen in the act of looting or setting fire.”It was gathered late in the evening that 14 persons had been killed and 35 injured in different places in two districts since the disturbance started two days ago.This morning, at Garia, in the Southern extension of the city, students of a local college were reported to have assaulted some bus passengers. When a flying police squad intervened, the van was badly damaged and two officers were injured. The police fired two rounds and as a result one student was fatally injured.At Batanagar, in 24-Parganas, workers of a factory clashed with neighbouring villagers and both parties were reported to have used fire-arms. The police opened fire twice to bring the situation under control. A number of people were injured.At Bangaon, on the border of Pakistan, the police opened fire on four occasions to prevent arson and looting. The number of casualties was not known.Cases of arson were reported fromContinued on Page 7 Column 4Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.Police Squads & Pickets Posted In Affected AreasWEST BENGAL PRESS NOTEContinued from Page 1 Column 7Chakdaha and Tehetta, in Nadia District, and Barasat, in 24 Parganas. Curfew was imposed on Bangaon subdivision, Habra, Jadavpur, Maheshtola, Sonarpur, Budge Budge and Haringhata and Ranaghat.In Calcutta, four cases of knife attack, three assaults and one incident of arson were reported tonight. Twenty-eight persons were arrested.Some leading Opposition and trade union leaders today decided to organise peace squads in the city. They met the Chief Minister and offered their services to the Government.From tomorrow morning they will go out in the disturbed areas to appeal to the people to remain calm.They also demanded that intending migrants from East Pakistan should be allowed to cross the border and the existing rules should be relaxed to facilitate their journey.'The Chief Minister was stated to have laid emphasis on the restoration of peace in the disturbed areas and pointed out the difficulties in relaxing the migration rules.P.T.I. adds: A Government press note, on the situation in Calcutta and suburbs tonight said:There were a few isolated incidents in the city today.Three persons were assaulted on Ganesh Chandra Avenue, one of whom was admitted to hospital, and another person received knife injury near the same area. There were reports of one person being assaulted in the Entally area and of three persons receiving knife injuries in the Christopher Road area. There were two incidents of throwing of brick-bats, aerated-water bottles and crackers. A number of arrests was made in connection with these incidents and some knives and crackers were seized from their possession.CONSTABLE INJUREDA procession from a training institute in the Gariahal area paraded some streets, another procession was stopped while proceeding to Raj Bhavan. There were reports of several small processions demonstrating in the streets. But no incidents were reported.There was a case of arson in a bustee on Anand Palit Road. The fire-brigade handled the fire and at the time of issuing the press note (9 p.m.) it was still operating in the area.Eight persons were arrested for throwing brick-bats on the police in the Gariahat area. One traffic constable sustained injuries.There have been some reports of incidents elsewhere also.In the morning, there was tension in the Garia area, of the Jadavpur police circle, where students of a local college pulled out some passengers from a bus and assaulted them. A police flying squad which intervened was also attacked and its vehicle was badly damaged. Two police officers were injured, to disperse the rowdy demonstration the police fired two rounds. One s ti-dent was injured in the incident. He was admitted to hospital where he succumbed to his injuries.POLICE REINFORCEMENTSIn the Mahestola area, workers of a factory attacked some persons in a neighbouring village. According to reports, the two groups which clashed used fire-arms. A police force rushed to the spot, had to open fire on two occasions after which the situation was brought under control.In Bangaon sub-division, there were reports of police opening fire at four places to prevent incidents of arson and looting. Cases of arson were reported from Chakdaha and Tehetta police stations, in Nadia, and Barasat, in 24-Parganas. Police reinforcements have arrived in these areas.Curfew from dusk to dawn has been enforced in Bangaon sub-division, in Habra police station, of Barasat subdivision, and in Jadavpur, Maheshtola, Sonarpur and Budge Budge police stations of 24-Parganas. In the past three days about 500 arrests have been made in connection with the incidentsin the West Bengal police area.Police squads, patrols and pickets have been posted in the affected areas and instructions have been issued to the police to deal with the incidents in a firm and adequate measure.Ranaghap The situation in Nadia District which borders the East Pakistani district of Kushtja—was reported-to be peaceful.—P.T.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Youth allegedly burnt alive: City news in briefOur Staff ReportersThe Times of India (1861-current); Mar 24, 1983; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 3Mr. Chaitanya Kalbag receiving the PUCL-India Today award for ‘Journalism for human rights* from the former President, Mr. N. Sanjiva Reddy, in Bombay on Wednesday.Youth allegedly burnt aliveBy Our Staff ReportersBOMBAY, March 23.A19-YEAR-OLD unemployed youth, Yeshwant Balaram Waleti, was alleged to have been burnt alive after three men reportedly poured kerosene and set him on fire at the Hindu cemetery at Wadala on Monday night.The Antop police have arrested two men, Namdeo Gangaram Pandu-kar (21) and Manzil Ahmed Wall Mohammed (26), while a third , suspect, Mohammed Jilani (26),' is absconding.The three alleged assailants were said to have entered the hut of Waleti while he was sleeping and assaultedCity news in briefhim with fists. Later, they dragged him out of the hut to the Hindu cemetery at Wadala where they trussed him up with wires. .The police said Manzir Mohammed was alleged to have doused Waleti with kerosene while Mohammed Jilani was reported to have set him on fire. Waleti sustained 100 per cent burns, on his body and was rushed to the Lokmanya Tilak hospital at Sion where he succumbed to the burns yesterday.The body was claimed by an uncle from the city morgue.TALK ON MORALITY:	Fr.Daniel Ferrando, S. J., professor of moral theology, St, Pius X College, will give a lecture on “Morality for modern man” under the Paul VI library of Religion lecture series at St. Xavier’s College on Friday at 6.15 p.m. The lecture is open tothe public. The library will remain open on Tuesdays and Fridays from5.30	p.m. to 7.30 p.m. till April 30. It is open to people of all faiths.Maha yagnaAn Athi Rudra Maha Yagna has been organised under the auspices of the Sankara Maltham, Matunga, from May 17 to 27. This will be followed by Satha Chandi Homam on May 28. It is claimed that as a group prayer this yagna will bring peace and prosperity for all. Eminent Vedic scholars well-versed in this type of yagna will participate.BANK STAFF STIR:	The All-India Union Bank Backward Class Employees’ Association will hold demonstrations at the head and zonal offices of the bank in the country on Friday .to protest against the government reservation policy towards backward class employees.Mr. D. R, Mane, general secretary of the association, told a press conference on Wednesday that the matter was pending before the supreme court for a decision. He said that in the second phase of the agitation, there will be relay hunger strikes from April 14 to 18. An indefinite hunger strike on April 25 will be the third phase of the agitation, he added. ;NAVAL COMPLEX: A new naval communication complex under the Bureau of Sailors was inaugurated by vice-admiral M. P. Awati, flag officer commanding-in-chief, Western Naval Command, at Mankhurd on Monday. Built at a cost of Rs. 12.38 lakhs, the centre is capable of handling all types of naval communication traffic.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Firm W. Bengal Steps Against Miscreants: POLICE OPEN FIRE TO STOP ARSON, LOOTINGThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jan 11, 1964; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 1Firm W. Bengal Steps Against MiscreantsPOLICE OPEN FIEE TO STOP ARSON, LOOTINGA'“The Times of India” News ServiceCALCUTTA, January 10.N order was issued tonight by the West Bengal Chief Minister, Mr. P. C. Sen, for strict measures against miscreants in areas where some cases of arson and looting occurred today.The poiice opened fire in four places to bring the situation under control and imposed dusk-to-dawn curfew in eight places in 24-Parganas and Nadia Districts.The situation in the border districts of 24-Parganas and Nadia suddenly deteriorated from last night following the crossing over of members of the minority community from Khulna and Jessore Districts, in East Pakistan.The Pakistani Government’s reported action to seal the border was viewed with grave anxiety by West Bengal Government circles.500 DETAINEDThe incidents were confined to certain pockets in the State and several contingents of armed police were rushed to those areas to deal with the situation. Since yesterday more than 500 persons have been detained under the West Bengal Security Act.The Chief Minister, who was away at Bhubaneswar, cut short his stay there and on his arrival here today announced that the Government was determined to take strong measures against anti-social elements. He said an “order has been issued to the police to open fire where people are seen in the act of looting or setting fire.”It was gathered late in the evening that 14 persons had been killed and 35 injured in different places in two districts since the disturbance started two days ago.This morning, at Garia, in the Southern extension of the city, students of a local college were reported to have assaulted some bus passengers. When a flying police squad intervened, the van was badly damaged and two officers were injured. The police fired two rounds and as a result one student was fatally injured.At Batanagar, in 24-Parganas, workers of a factory clashed with neighbouring villagers and both parties were reported to have used fire-arms. The police opened fire twice to bring the situation under control. A number of people were injured.At Bangaon, on the border of Pakistan, the police opened fire on four occasions to prevent arson and looting. The number of casualties was not known.Cases of arson were reported fromContinued on Page 7 Column 4Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.Police Squads & Pickets Posted In Affected AreasWEST BENGAL PRESS NOTEContinued from Page 1 Column 7Chakdaha and Tehetta, in Nadia District, and Barasat, in 24 Parganas. Curfew was imposed on Bangaon subdivision, Habra, Jadavpur, Maheshtola, Sonarpur, Budge Budge and Haringhata and Ranaghat.In Calcutta, four cases of knife attack, three assaults and one incident of arson were reported tonight. Twenty-eight persons were arrested.Some leading Opposition and trade union leaders today decided to organise peace squads in the city. They met the Chief Minister and offered their services to the Government.From tomorrow morning they will go out in the disturbed areas to appeal to the people to remain calm.They also demanded that intending migrants from East Pakistan should be allowed to cross the border and the existing rules should be relaxed to facilitate their journey.'The Chief Minister was stated to have laid emphasis on the restoration of peace in the disturbed areas and pointed out the difficulties in relaxing the migration rules.P.T.I. adds: A Government press note, on the situation in Calcutta and suburbs tonight said:There were a few isolated incidents in the city today.Three persons were assaulted on Ganesh Chandra Avenue, one of whom was admitted to hospital, and another person received knife injury near the same area. There were reports of one person being assaulted in the Entally area and of three persons receiving knife injuries in the Christopher Road area. There were two incidents of throwing of brick-bats, aerated-water bottles and crackers. A number of arrests was made in connection with these incidents and some knives and crackers were seized from their possession.CONSTABLE INJUREDA procession from a training institute in the Gariahal area paraded some streets, another procession was stopped while proceeding to Raj Bhavan. There were reports of several small processions demonstrating in the streets. But no incidents were reported.There was a case of arson in a bustee on Anand Palit Road. The fire-brigade handled the fire and at the time of issuing the press note (9 p.m.) it was still operating in the area.Eight persons were arrested for throwing brick-bats on the police in the Gariahat area. One traffic constable sustained injuries.There have been some reports of incidents elsewhere also.In the morning, there was tension in the Garia area, of the Jadavpur police circle, where students of a local college pulled out some passengers from a bus and assaulted them. A police flying squad which intervened was also attacked and its vehicle was badly damaged. Two police officers were injured, to disperse the rowdy demonstration the police fired two rounds. One s ti-dent was injured in the incident. He was admitted to hospital where he succumbed to his injuries.POLICE REINFORCEMENTSIn the Mahestola area, workers of a factory attacked some persons in a neighbouring village. According to reports, the two groups which clashed used fire-arms. A police force rushed to the spot, had to open fire on two occasions after which the situation was brought under control.In Bangaon sub-division, there were reports of police opening fire at four places to prevent incidents of arson and looting. Cases of arson were reported from Chakdaha and Tehetta police stations, in Nadia, and Barasat, in 24-Parganas. Police reinforcements have arrived in these areas.Curfew from dusk to dawn has been enforced in Bangaon sub-division, in Habra police station, of Barasat subdivision, and in Jadavpur, Maheshtola, Sonarpur and Budge Budge police stations of 24-Parganas. In the past three days about 500 arrests have been made in connection with the incidentsin the West Bengal police area.Police squads, patrols and pickets have been posted in the affected areas and instructions have been issued to the police to deal with the incidents in a firm and adequate measure.Ranaghap The situation in Nadia District which borders the East Pakistani district of Kushtja—was reported-to be peaceful.—P.T.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Riots linked to advocate's killingThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 23, 1992; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 18Riots linked to advocate’s killing| The Times of India News Service )BANGALORE, Oct. 22.THE violent incidents at Kadaballi village in Nagamangala taluka of Mandya district on the day of the chief minister, Mr S. Bangarappa's second anniversary bash, leading to destruction of buses and police firing killing two persons wasI* I	i A .. At. _	________I___IHIWVU IU IIIV IIIUIUVI Ul Hviruvmv-journalist, Mr Gangadharamurthy, according to the home minister, Mr Dharam Singh.Talking to newsmen here on Monday, he said the trouble started when a large crowd of farmers, who were demanding a CBI probe into the advocate’s murder instead of the inquiry by COD ordered by the government, tried to obstruct buses carrying the people for attending the Sadhaneya Samavesha rally in the city on October 17.Out of the nearly 100 buses on their way here, most of the buses had been allowed to move by the farmers. However, some of the farmers raised objections halfway through and insisted that people should not take to attend the rally and the buses were stoned.The attempts to pacify the farmers by the local leaders and the bus-passengers proved futile and the intervention of the local legislator,Mr L.R. Shivarame Gowda, enraged the crowd and the buses were set on fire.The police had to open fire to control the situation going out of control. While two persons died on account of the police firing, as many as 15 policemen were injured. The condition of three of the injured policemen is still critical.As many as 45 buses were damaged and five were completely gutted, Mr Dharam Singh said pointing out that the government has already ordered a magisterial inquiry.While agreeing that the root-cause of the entire incident was the murder of the advocate, the home minister declined to :ccpt the demand of the advocates and farming community for entrusting the investigation into the murder to the CBI. He said the COD was doing a “very good job” and three of the prime accused have already been arrested.Mr Dharam Singh declared that the government would not shield anybody, however high and mighty he may be. Answering a specific question, he said the involvement of Mr Shivarame Gowda was yet to be established. “We cannot go merely by allegations. Let the COD complete its report in a free and impartial manner. If the involvement of lthe legislator is proved, we will certainly take appropriate action. Nobody is going to be spared,” he asserted.The minister said three senior officials of the Border Security Force (BSF) had recently visited the state and had detailed discussions with the state police and home department authorities to discuss the strategy for nabbing the dreaded Veerappan gang. The Centre is yet to indicate which para-military force will be despatched to carry out the entire operation, he added.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Two killed in Mhow riotingOur CorrespondentThe Times of India (1861-current); Aug 16, 1980; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Two killed in Mhow riotingBy Our CorrespondentINDORE, August 15: Two persons were killed and 25 others were injured in rioting and firing in'Mhow cantonment town, 20 km, south of the city, today.An indefinite curfew has been imposed and army and police units are patrolling the streets of the riot-torn town.The army has also been called out to assist the civilian authorities in restoring calm in Mhow.A few shops and houses were set jnn fire by the mob, according to reports reaching here.The BIG of police and the Indore divisional commissioner have left for Mhow.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿42-hr. curfew in BhopalThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 13, 1981; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1BHOPAL, October 12 fPTIi.nPHE old city area in Bhopal -E- today wore	a deserted lookwith the police	patrolling streetsand lanes after a 42-hour cu~iew was enforced from noon following fresh incidents of stone-throwing by unruly mobs at the police.At least 2] police personnel, including one sub-inspector and one platoon commander, were injured in today’s stone-throwing incidents. Yesterday 32 policemen, including a subdivisional police officer and the additional district magistrate, were injured in stone-throwing incidents.Mr. Subh.ash Tripathi, DTG, Bhopal range, told newsmen this evening that the decision to clamp curfew was taken as local social and political leaders, who held negotiations with the police, failed to persuade the workers of the Somwara Durga Puja Samiti to Teinstal the marble Durga idol in a place allotted by the government instead of in the busy Peergate Square area.	.A mob of 400 gathered in front of the house of a prominent social worker this morning in the affected area to hear him on last night’s incident when the police had burst teargas shells after stone-throwing by some miscreants.Apparently dissatisfied with the outcome of the negotiations between the district administration and representatives of the people late last night, the mob turned violent today.A round of the city showed that of the bylanes were blocked by Toad-blocks to prevent the police from entering the bylanes. Steel-helmetedpolice were patrolling the area in large numbers.The city wore a deserted look with all business houses and shops closed. The streets were littered by brickbats gradually cleared for the police jeeps to pass through.Earlier, this morning, some people attempted to organise a bandh by forcing shop-owners in Hanumangunj, Ghora Nakkas and Hamidia Road to pull down their shutters., The organisers of the bandh were not identified.Although, stray incidents of stonethrowing were reported even after curfew was clamped, the situation was fully under control now, Mr. Tripathi said. The police burst two teargas shells in one area and lathi-charged crowds at two other places.	•With the arrest of 86 people today, the total number of arrests rose to 153, he said.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew clamped in Surat after arsonThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Apr 22, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Curfew clamped inSurat after arsonThe Times of IndU News ServiceSURAT, April 21: Parts of the old city of Sural were placed under indefinite curfew this afternoon following stabbings and arson. Violence claimed one life and a score of houses, cabins and a place of worship. Nearly 80 people have been arrested, of whom 60 arc under Terrorists and Disruptive Act (TADA).At least 50 people have been rendered homeless in the unprecedented violence in Surat city since late last night. Four people have been admitted to the civil hospital with serious stab wounds. One policeman too has suffered injuries.The affected areas form an arc in the southern peripheri of the old city stretching from Navsari Bazar in the south to the Machiwad-Makaipul on the north. These areas come under the Athwa lines police station.The trouble began around 10.30 p.m. last night when four youths coming from Kshctarpal area near Navsari Bazar were attacked by a gang of nearly 20 men armed with knives and hockey sticks, the police commissioner Mr Sibal said.One of the youths sustained knife wounds while three managed to escape unhurt. Following this incident, holigans came out in the streets and set afire to a number of roadside cabins. The police burst ten teargas shells to disperse rampaging mob and arrested 19 people for arson and slabbing. The situation remained calm for the rest of the night.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿2 KILLED AND 11 HURT IN CLASH: CURFEW IN KOTAHThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 1, 1955; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 12	KILLED AND 11 HURT IN CLASH Curfew In KotahJAIPUR, September 30: Two persons were killed and eleven injured, two of them seriously, in a clash between two groups in Kotah this afternoon, according to a report received here tonight.	.The injured included two policemen. The report said that the clash occurred when a group of people carrying the image of Lord Ganesh arrived in a locality in the city.Curfew was immediately clamped down in the city, the report added.—P.T.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Birlagram curfewThe Times of India (J86J-current); Dec 26, 1970; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 6Birlasrram curfewUJJAIN (M.P.), December 25: The situation in the Birlagram industrial township near here remained ‘peaceful' today., according to official sources.Curfew was reimposed for 12 hours from 1800 hours as a precautionary measure. .	..A party of six members of the State Assembly including Mr. V. S. Pra-dhan, leader of the Jana Sangh bloc,Mr. S. P, Chanpuria (SSP( and Mr.Brijlal Verma (Jana Sangh) today visited Birlagram for an on-the-spot study of Monday’s disturbances, which took a toll of three lives and caused extensive damage to property.—P.T.I.	.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿3 die in clash in BangaloreThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 19, 1972; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1BANGALORE, October 18.T’HREE people were killed and 38 injured following stabbing, looting, rioting and arson in the Munitreddypalayam area here late last night./\raong xnose siaooea to aeatft was a 52-year-old police constable and a tailor while the charred body of an unidentified person was found in a gutted cracker-shop.Twenty police constables and officers were among injured.An order prohibiting processions and meetings and the carrying of lethal weapons and explosives was clamped on Bangalore city today.PROCESSION ATTACKEDThe disturbances were a sequel to a clash between two groups of people as- a Dasara procession was passing by a place of worship. The procession was said to have been attacked with stones, sodawater bottles and othermissiles at about 10 p.m. yesterday.Munireddypalayam is a known trouble-spot and the procession was being escorted by the armed reserve police. However, the magnitude of the attack appears to have taken the police by surprise.The police burst 22 tear-gas shells and made a lathi-charge.In the trouble that quickly spread to some villages on the outskirts of the city, eight autorickshaws, a scooter and a motor-cycle were set ablaze. Some shops were also set on fire. One of them was a cracker-shop w'hich was burnt down. The municipal corporation market at Munireddypalayam was looted.The police have recovered iron bars, razor blades, sodawater bottles and heaps of stones from the place of worship.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Mixed response to bandhThe Times of India News Service;PTIThe Times of India (1861-current); Dec 9, 1992; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1COUNTRYWIDE TOLL 500Mixed response to bandhThe Times of India News Service & PTINEW DELHI, December 8.THE fury of communal violence sparked by the demolition ol the Babri masjid in Ayodhya com tinued unabated in six states claiming 175 more lives today, raising the toll to atleast 500.ror me second successive day, Maharashtra reeled under mob frenzy claiming 125 lives with Bombay bearing the brunt of the tragedy with 80 deaths reported in police firing and group clashes.Meanwhile, the Bharat bandh called by the National Front-left parties and muslim organisations to protest against the destruction of the mosque evoked mixed response with shops and educational institutions closed in most states.remainingDELHI PEACEFUL: No major incident took place in New Delhi during the bandh except a few attempts to close shops and markets and block traffic in south Delhi.All the three universities and colleges and schools remained closed and many people opted to stay indoors anticipating trouble.U.P. TOLL 47: In Uttar Pradesh, 11 more casualties were reported from different parts, taking the tally of victims to 47. Most of the deaths were in police firing reported from Saharanpur, Faizabad, Lucknow, Allahabad, Varanasi, Fatehgarh, Jhansi, Allahabad, Aligarh and Bareilly.Kanpur reported fresh outbreak of violence leaving one dead and 19 injured.M.P. ARSON: The death toll in Madhya Pradesh mounted to 36with Bhopal accounting for 21, as rioters continued their arson and looting spree.According to the police, three persons were burnt alive by a frenzied mob in Vijaya Nagar area of old city in Bhopal.JAIPUR TOLL 23: With the death of one more person reported today, the death toll in Jaipur and adjoining Shastrinagar locality here rose to 23.The army was called in all districts under curfew — Jaipur (walled city and Shastrinagar), Tonk, Ajmer and Nagore. Besides, the army was also called in Sikar, Chomu and Kota districts following tension.BIHAR FIRING: Three more district headquarters, including Kishanganj on the Indo-(Continued on Page IS)Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.Bharat bandh evokes mixed response(Continued from Page 1)Bangladesh border have been pul under curfew today bringing the total number of curfew-bound districts to eight.The police resorted to firing at half-a-dozen places in the state today. All the 51 districts have been brought under prohibitory orders.J&K NORMAL: The bandh evoked marginal response in Jammu and Kashmir today.Shops remained open, vehicular traffic was plying normally and government offices, banks and educational institutions functioned normally in Jammu, Kathua and Udhampur districts of Jammu region.The bandh failed to evoke any response in Amritsar district of Punjab but the SGPC and Golden Temple offices in the city remained closed.The markets, bus and rail traffic,banks, commercial establishments, schools and colleges worked normally.In Haryana too, the bandh failed to have any impact.v»UJARAT RIOTS: The violence continued unabated on the second day today in Gujarat with the loll mounting to 109 with reports of 48 more deaths in the state.In today's violence, eight people lost their lives in Ahmedabad city — four of them were killed in police firing in Shahpur and Kalapur sensitive areas, while 32 people were killed in Surat.A.P. FIRING: Seven people were killed — three each in Hyderabad and Madanapalle — in police firing and stabbing incidents today, taking the death toll in violence in Andhra Pradesh to 17 with the state capital accounting for 13.Indefinite curfew was clamped in Cuddapah, Kurnool, Nalgonda,Nizamabad and Rayachoti.KARNATAKA CURFEW: With the death of three more people in police firing in Gulbarga, the toll in Karnataka mounted to 40 today.The authorities imposed curfew in four police station limits of Mysore — Mandimohalla, Laskar mohalla, Narasi maharaja and Nazarbad areas.TN FIRING: Reports of a conv munal flare-up in other states triggered widespread violence today in Tamil Nadu, where the police opened fire in five places to quell the rampaging mob.6 KILLED: Six people were killed in Kerala, two of them in police firing, during the observance of separate dawn-to-dusk bandhs called by the Congress-led ruling front and the CPM-led opposition Left Democratic Front today over the Ayodhya developments.Two demonstrators were killed when police opened fire atPunthura in Thiruvananthapuram and Chettukundu in Kasaragod to quell violent crowds.BENGAL TENSE: Tension prevailed in West Bengal for the second day today in the 48-hour-bandh paralysed West Bengal, with fresh outbreaks of violence arson and looting in some areas of the city and in the districts.Incidents of violence were reported from new areas in South and North 24 Parganas, where fresh curfew has been imposedA 48-hour curfew was clamped in Cuttack city in Orissa after clashes broke out in the Baxibazar area forcing the police to fire in the air to quell violence.In Bhubaneshwar, the bandh did not evoke much response18 BURNT ALIVE: In Assam 30 people were killed, 18 of them being burnt alive.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿27 killed in HyderabadThe Times of India (J86J-current); Dec 9, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 127 killed in HyderabadHYDERABAD,Dec. 8 (UNI).TWENTY seven people were killed in fresh stabbing incidents and police firing in the old city of Hyderabad late tonight taking the toll in the violence since yesterday to 47..According to official sources, three people died in police firing.Large-scale arson and looting was reported in parts of the curfew-bound old city, while the police opened fire at two places to quell clashing mobs.Golconda police station limits from 6 p.m. today.The police opened fire in Balapur to quell a rioting mob in which the person who received bullet injuries succumbed in the Osmania hospital this evening.The city police commissioner, Mr K. V. Bhaskar Rao, told newsmen that an unidentified body of a 25-year-old man was found in Kulsumpura and that a nine-ycar-old girl who was injured in yesterday’s clashes in the old city succumbed to injuries today.Curfew which was earlier relaxed Meanwhile, Mr N. T. Rama for two hours tomorrow morning Rao, president of the Telugu will continue in the wake of the Desam, said at a press conference tense situation, the police said. that the state government had Curfew has been extended to failed completely in providing Asifnagar, Langar House and protection to the weaker sections.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿U.P. carnage reveals caste antatgonismGupta, Smita;The Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 9, 1994; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 9P. SARANGAPANIRAF patrolling the riot-hit Valmikinagar area in Bangalore SaturdayU.P. carnage reveals caste antagonismBy Smita Gupta The Times of India News ServiceMUZAFFARNAGAR, October 8.Five days after the violent clash between the police and Uttarakhand agitators on the Muzaffamagar- Roorkee road, faint blood stains are still visible and broken shards of glass and brickdust litter the verge.out enuring a iaciuai account of the events of the night of October 1 and, the morning of October 2 in which at least 10 people died, remains difficult, with the district administration busy trying to minimise their role in the mayhem, and local politicians opposed to the Mulayam Singh Yadav government making political capital of the incident. Worse, there is a strong undercurrent of caste antagonism and the sense of upper caste Uttarakhand agitators being pitted against a pro-backward-dalit-minorities administration.The two most contentious issues relate to the stopping and searching of buses for possible weapons-which led to a confrontation and subsequent violence--and the alleged rape/ molestation of women thereafter.The district authorities say the provocation for the stop- and-search operations were two directives from Delhi-one from the Delhi Police Commissioner Mr B.M. Kaushal to the director general of police, U.P. and the other from the home department of the Delhi government to the chief secretary and home secretary of U.P. Both directives mention the possibility of exservicemen (among the rallyists) carrying weapons, and specifically ask the U.P. administration to stop, search and seize any such weapons.In Delhi, this is being seen as anattempt to pass the buck. Home Ministry sources say that the source of the information about the possibility of ex-servicemen carrying weapons was the Meerut Range deputy inspector general Bua Singh. Mr Singh is reported to have said this at a coordination meeting in Delhi on September 30 at which senior police officers of the Delhi administration and central security agencies were present. His report formed the basis of the two directives from Delhi, both dated September 30, sources say.As far as the issue of rape/ molestation of women agitators is concerned, the district magistrate, Mr A.K. Singh, however denies that any such incident took place. He stresses that Ms Archana Negi who has been mentioned in newspaper reports as being one of the victims did go missing on the morning of October 2, but that a team led by Ms Dabral, one of the agitators, found her and she did not make any complaint.In Rampur and Medpur, villages where the agitators took shelter after the firing, residents testify to large numbers of frightened women running helter-skelter, but not to receiving any actual complaint of rape or molestation. However, Rajbal Sharma of Medpur village, who was working in the sugarcane fields testifies to giving a woman his kurta to wear as her clothes had been tom off. This correspondent met his wife and daughter who said that five women had complained of molestation/rape to Mr Sharma. Home ministry sources in Delhi say that at least two women were molested.If the number of women molested is small, what is more than clear is that men and women agitators alike were roughed up severely by the police.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿10 school children crushed to deathThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 6, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Curfew clamped on AnkleshwarThe Times of India News ServiceAHMEDABAD: ,Sept. 5: An indefinite curfew has been imposed in Ankleshwar town from this morning and rioting spread to Kapadvan town in Kaira district where seven shops were reported to have been burnt.While the curfew continued in Anand and Baroda, some incidents of arson were reported from Baroda but the situation was peaceful in Bardoli in south Gujarat.At least six shops and larigalas were burnt late last night at Ankleshwar which forced the authorities to clamp the curfew.► See Edit: Omens In Gujarat, Page 12More than 80 shops were burnt in large-scale violence in Baroda yesterday while 16 shops were either looted or set on fire in Anand town.Mr Chimanbhai Patel, told reporters in Gandhinagar that the trouble started both at Baroda and Anand when some processionists shouted provocative slogans, leading to stone-throwing and group clashes.(Police blamed for rfyts, Page 13)10 school children crushed to deathMADRAS, Sept. 5 (UNI): Ten school children were crushed to death and 14 injured when a truck ran over them in front of their school at Thirupparaithurai on the Karur-Tiruchi road, about 20 km from Tiruchi this evening, according to information received at the state police headquarters here.All the victims were waiting to board buses for home after attending school when the mishap occurred. Two of the deceased were girls.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿138 Arrests In Bhopal: FACTION FIGHT SEQUELThe Times of India (J86J-current); Mar 7, 1953; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1138 Arrests In BhopalFACTION FIGHT SEQUELBHOPAL, March 6.One hundred and thirty-eight persons were arrested following a clash yesterday between two rivi.l groups, in which four persons were seriously injured, according to a press note issued by the Additional District Magistrate here todayArmed pickets, and mobile and foot patrols are moving through the city where an order has been promulgated under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code banning unlawful assemblies for three days. Curfew was enforced last night as a preventive measure. The situation has returned to normal.The Chief Minister, Dr. Shankar Dayal Sharma, accompanied by the Health Minister, Maulana Mashriqui, and Deputy Minister, Mr. Umrr y Singh, went round the city in the evening and again late in the night yesterday to inspect police arrangements in the curfew areas.—P.T.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿MOBS CLASH IN CENTRAL CALCUTTA: POLICE OPEN FIRE Four killed in day of violence: troops outThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); May 29, 1967; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1“The Times of India” News ServiceCALCUTTA, May 28.TROOPS were called out in parts of central Calcutta today to assist the police who had to open fire thrice, killing two persons and injuring six others.Twenty-two ronnds were fired by the police to curb communal clashes and widespread looting and arson.Two others were killed and 50 injured in the riots. Of them, 11 had to be admitted to hospital. The number of nolice-men injured in the day’s inch dents was five, including the officer-in-charge of the Beniapu-kur police station.A dusk-to dawn curfew and an order under Section 144, Or. P.C, prohibiting the assembly of more than four persons and carrying of weapons, have been promulgated in the Beniapukur and Entally police station areas.. The order un-, der Section 144 extends to parts of adjoining Karaya also.CLASHES AT NIGHTAgain, at night the police opened fire to disperse violent crowds at Belia-ghata (east Calcutta) where there had been some clashes between two groups of people-local residents and working class people from outside the State-earlier in the evening.One person was injured as a result of this police firing.The rioting crowds, which had dispersed on the arrival of police reinforcements from Lai Bazar in the evening, however, re-appeared on the scene in larger numbers soon after 9 p,m. and started fighting with home-made bombs and brickbats.Acid bulbs were also said to have been_ used. As a result some neighbouring huts and shops caught fire.ROUND-UP ORDEREDOrders Have been issued by the United Front Government to round up all knowjr lawless elements in the city.' The district authorities have' been, asked to take all necessary steps to maintain the peace.	,The Union Home Secretary, Mr.L.	P. Singh, had a telephonic talk with the Chief Secretaty^ Afr^ M.,M.8as% on^^t^im;%^city: To an inquiry'by Mr. Singh if police reenforcements were necessary, Mr. Basu is reported to have replied that the State’s police force whs adequate.The Deputy ‘Chief Minister, Mr.Jyoti Basu, who Went round the affected areas along with some other Ministers, told newsmen that the disturbances appeared to be pre-planned.He had been informed a few days ago that there would be communal trouble in Calcutta before May 30. It had been proved now that his information was correct.and brickbats were freely used. There were several cases of stabbing.More than a dozen shops and huts were set on fire and a large number of shops, irrespective of the communities to which their owners belonged, were looted.BUSTEES ATTACKEDThe police .used lathis and tear-gas to disperse the rioters, but they were undeterred in at least two places where some bustees had been attacked. The police fired thrice in these two areas to bring the situation under control.Police assistance was made, available to some families who wanted to be evacuated from the troubled areas. Some others left the areas on their own, but by evening many of them were returning.	.The army is patrolling the affected areas. Life in other parts of the city is normal.P.T.I. adds: Describing; the overall situation as “under control” this evening, Mr. Jyoti Basu told newsmen that the trouble started in the early hours' when residents of the Padmapukur area objected to some persons running a gambling den in the locality. It flared up into a full-scale' clash when rival groups attacked each other with soda-water bottles, bombs, crackers and deadly weapons.Soon, the disturbances spread to the adjoining area of Beniapukur as frenzied mobs set on fire at least a dozen shops and houses and resorted to looting.	'Mr. 'Basu said the first police partyContinued on Page 9 Column 5A half-burnt car in the. foreground and troops sta nding by bear witness to Calcutta’s violent Sunday,sparked off, by a clash between gamblers.—Radio photo.JOINT PEACE SQUADSJoint peace squads are touring the affected areas. The .Government has issued orders to the police to deal firmly with any attempt to break the peace and resort to firing whenever necessary in view of the nature of the disturbances.The origin of the disturbances appears to be a quarrel between two groups in a gambling den last night From early this morning there was tension in the troubled area which soon deteriorated into looting and stray assaults.The incidents took a communal turn and groups of people in the area, which is a mixed locality, clashed. Crackers, lathis, soda water bottlesReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.W. Bengal Govt deplores“Communal twist”Continued from Page 1 Column 2to arrive on the scene was not in sufficient strength. As soon as reinforcements arrived, the police went into action resorting to lathi-charge, tear-gas and firing in stages as the intensity of mob violence grew to peak level. _The police firing had the desired effect and the crowds dispersed.The army, he said, was first alerted at 10-30 a.m. and was asked to move in at 2 p.m. as a ‘‘precautionary measure.”Mr. Basu said there was some tension in the Sealdah area following •an isolated incident. Tension was also reported in some adjoining areas.The State’s Chief Minister, Mr. Ajoy Kumar Mukherjee, now away in Darjeeling, had been kept fully posted about the day’s incidents. He said the Centre had “offered” to assist the State Government with units of the Central Reserve Police, but the State Government had ‘‘declined the offer as the Army had already been called out.”A West Bengal Government press note issued earlier in the day said “some people” were trying to give the incidents “a communal character.”The press note added: “The situation at present is under control. The Government appeals to all citizens to help in keeping the peace, in their localities and to prevent the spreading of communal passions. The Government is determined to put down any L recrudescence of such troubles and hopes the public will help it in this i task.” .	'■	U.N.I. adds:' A rubber factory, a fruit-processing . factory and two cars parked in the ’ disturbed area were gutted. At least \ 50 shops and other establishments and ’ a number of houses were set on fire.A nursing home was made the s target of a bomb attack and damag-•	ed inmates of some houses were as-■	saulted by mobs who invaded resi-•	dential quarters.' More than 10 fire-engines fought the fires in the disturbed areas apd•	brought the .flames under control by noon. The fire-fighting operations ware handicapped by large-scale brickbatting by mobs.One eye-witness said that the clashes were so sudden and their impact was so severe that she did not know when her nursing home was raided by a mob.Another eye-witness whose rubber factory was completely gutted and his residential building was set on fire . said that hooligans raided his resi-) dential house, assaulted the inmates j | and looted property.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Three Injured In Faction FightThe Times of India (J86J-current); Aug 23, 1954; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9Three Injured In Faction Fight25 ARRESTED INMATHURA---------- ««» ■■■.AGRA, August 22:	Threepersons were injured in a clash between members of two different communities in Mathura today, according to reports received here.The reports said that some persons broke an idol of Lord' Krishna which was about to be installed in a temple near Idgham mosque. The site of the temple is called “Shri Krishna Janma Bhoomi.”F ollowing this about 60 houses and huts were reported to have been looted and burned by members of one community.Twenty-five persons were taken into custody by the police In connection with the disturbances and orders under Section 144 Cr. P. C. banning the holding of processions and meetings, assembly of five and more persons and carrying of lethal weapons were imposed., Curfew has been clamped down on the city from 6 p.m. today to 2 p.m. tomorrowIn the evening a procession organised by the Jan Sangh started from its office but it dispersed as soon -as the organisers came to know that orders under Section 144 were, inforce.A meeting which Mr. Kamla-pati Tripathi, State Minister for Irrigation, was scheduled to address this evening, was postponed because of the ban.—P.T.I.HINDI NAME FOR UPPER HOUSE “Rajya Sabha”“The Times of India News ServiceNEW DELHI, August 22: “Rajya Sabha” will be the Hindi name for the Council, of States. \r	VThis decision of the VicePresident, Dr. S. Radhakrish-nan, who is also the Chairman of the Council of States, was conveyed by Mr. Nehru to members of the Parliamentary Congress Party this evening.Prime Minister’s FundNEW DELHI, August 22: About Rs. 2-114 lakhs have been contributed to the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund for the relief of distress caused by floods in various parts of India, since August 1, 1954, it was learnt here today.Contributions to the Fund on August 18 and 19 amounted to Rs. 45,103.—P.T.LReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿4	killed in Delhi rioting, army outThe Time of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); May 23, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1The Time* of India New* ServiceNEW DELHI. Mav 22TROOPS moved into the walled city ateas after a fresh wave of violence , during the curfew relaxation tfyis afternoon, in which four ' persons were killed and over 80 injured.	'	.. The police commissioner, Mr Ved Marwah,: told newsmen tonight that the army has been called out in the walled city and curfew reimposed in (^Handni Mahal, Jama Masjid, Hauz Qazi, Town Hall and Kotwali areas.	’Mr Marwah said the police fired 28 rounds at six places and lobbed 52 tcargas shells after lathicharges failed to control the rampaging mobs which numbered 30,000 to 40,000 ’at Jamla May id and 20,000 at Falehpuri.. 1 He said the trouble started soon after the Friday prayers. Slogan-shouting mobs ransacked shops and set them afire-in the Hauz Qazi area.Soon the* trouble spread to the nearby Matia Mahal, Kucha Pandit, Churi Walan and Katra Giftlam Mohammd localities.	'He said 125 people were arrested on charges of rioting.At least 40 shops were gutted and six two-wheelers tbrehed, Mr Marwah said. ,	,	a.He said the situation, “though still .tense,” was under control and thepolice force in the entire capital had been put on alert.	1“We are ‘taking no chances and several columns- of th^ army have already moved in to Sadar Bazar, Hauz Qazi, Turkman: Gate, and Chandni Chowk areas while morel are standing by.” 1 ■.	'	• .Meerut riots unabated12 MORE KILLED (PTI): In a fresh spurt of violence, 12 persons \ycrc killed in clashes, a powerful bomb exploded in the heart of Meerut city and two factories were set ablaze as the official toll in the continued communal violence rose to 57 today.	’Of the 12 casualties, nine persons were killed in clashes and a bomb Explosion and three bodies of those killed in earlier incidents were recovered, official sources said (latc tonight.	»	.The situation was officially stated to be still “tense,” as the U.P. government moved a posse of400 policemen, reven superintendents of police and 13 deputy superintendents of police tb the not-' tom city.	'Violence spread to the outskirts of Meerut city as incidents of arson and looting-’ were reported from Kakra Khcra Basti artd kasheru Kliera. Two persons were killed and seven injured in Ihc clashes.	.	’The Uiiion hopie minister, Mr Buta Singh, who visited Meerut for an on-thc-spoDassessment, ruled out handing over, the city to the army, saying the steps taken by the district administration were effective. '	-The violence, he said, seemed to b< “pre-planned” considering the “abnormal dimensions” it had assumed.BUKHARI'S SERMON (TOINS) The Shahi Imam of Jama Masjid, Syed Abdullah Bukhari, today appealed. K the congregation to desist from raisini slogans and cautioned them from railing prey to the designs of certain elements to foment trouble.Addressing the congregation on th< last Friday of the .month of Ramzan the Shahi imam saiid he was fpr an cn< to the troubled situation lit the oountry He blamed the Delhi administrate! for letting the. situation deteriorate tt such an extent that many devoteei were unable to attend the prayers.The Imam accused the Muslin leaders who were in government o being-indifferent to the plight of th community, ' He said that all th Muslim ministers should resign ii order to convey to the governmen their sentiments. 'f \	,	:	’MADHOK’SCHARGE (UNIj: Th< Bharatiye, Jan Sanglr blamed the Central leadership for the communal flare up in Meerut and said there was.’i growing impression that; it was ilweai and amenable to violent pressure'*.In a statement issued1 in Delhi, the party president, - Prof Bplnu Madhok said <jollcctive fines and deterrent punishment should be imposed on tnosri indulging -in anti-national activitiei ahd warned that any other'policy 61 appeasement would be Counter-productive. 1Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Communal tension high in CalcuttaThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Aug 18, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 5The Times of India News Service CALCUTTA, August 17.PROHIBITORY orders were x clamped in the Entally-Beniapukur and Metiabruz-Gar-den Reach areas of the city to contain a potentially explosive communal situation.The Eastern Frontier Rifles had to be deployed in the tension-ridden Entally area to augment the local police contingents. The situation, which could have taken an ugly turn, was contained with difficulty. It was sparked off by a road accident in which a member of a minority community was run over by a public bus..Two persons died and one is seriously injured in the violence that followed. It is being officially described as a clash between the Muslims and thejocal police force.The. conflict was contained before it could acquire a communal colour, the Congress MLA, Mr Sultan Ahmed, said.. However, he accused the police of acting in a partisan manner. The Chief minister, Mr Jyoti Basu, acknowledgeing the gravity of the situation, said the tension had occurred over a minor incident.In another part of the city, Metiabruz-Garden Reach, there was an intra-communal clash betweentwo linguistic groups. The Eastern Frontier Rifles has been deployed.Unlike the Entally incident, there had been indications that tension was building up in the Metiabruz area over Muharram processions. One person died, two were injured and 31 arrested in a clash over eve-tea$ing in the Pilkhana area. While Muhairam Day passed off peacefully on Sunday, tension broke out into the open on Wednesday. ,	'The Entally incident caught the state government unawares as the majority of the Calcutta police force had been deployed for the Independence Day-Calcutta tercentenary celebrations and the remaining police had been shifted to the Metiabruz area.	■Mr Ahmed, who was present at .Entally around the time of the incident, said the road accident caused the Muslims of the area to gather in large numbers. Similar accidents had taken place along the same road over the last few years and the local population was. incensed.A group of persons were determined to set Are to the bus though the majority community tried to prevent it. The police arrived in time to stop the two communities from clashing but bore the brunt of the violence. -	.The police fired 30 rounds of teargas and then opened fire in which one person was injured. Officials are tightlipped about the nature of injuries of the person injured in the clash, though the initial reports indicate the possibility of pipegunwounds. .There were rumours that the mOsque in the area had been attacked and bombs had been hurled at the building.	'	. '. Mr Ahmed said that those who burnt the bus and those who opposed it clashed and hurled bombs. Ten policemen, including a deputy commissioner of police, Were injured in the incident. The minority community seemed prepared and were armed.While the Entally incident took place around 1.30 p:m. on Wednesday, it took nearly six hours to bring the situation under control;.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿City riot death roll rises to 94The Times TeamThe Times of India (1861-current); Dec 9, 1992; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1reports suggesting large-scale violence in new areas.The chief minister, Mr Sudhakarrao Naik, today reviewed the law and order situation in the state at a meeting with the chief secretary, the director-general of police and the southern command army chief, Lt Gen A. S. Kalkat.Mr Naik told TOINS that it was decided to call out the army to assist the civil authority in restoring normalcy. He said the violence was expected to subside today but the situation did not improve yesterday.Dharavi and Deonar areas in Bombay suffered a major bout of violence today. The police commissioner, Mr Shrikant Bapat, toldBy The Times TeamBOMBAY. December 8\17IDESPREAD violence con VV tinued to rock Greater Bom' bay for the second consecutive da> today with the death toll reaching 94 even as the army moved in tc patrol various sensitive areas.The rest of Maharashtra was comparatively calm though sporadic violence broke out at half-a-dozen places, taking the death toll to 28, resulting from firing at 21 places, official sources said.In Bombay, the death toll is believed to be more than the official figure of 94. The police control room, however, stuck to this figure late in the night despitereporters that the epicentre of violence had shifted from south Bombay to the eastern suburbs.The minister of state for home, Mr Babanrao Pachpute, who attended a review meeting, said it was decided to deploy the army in the maximum number of localities to improve the situation in Bombay.He said there were four incidents of arson, five of stabbing and over a dozen of stone-pelting. Trains were attacked at two places in the state while 22 state transport buses and 12 private vehicles were damaged. Firing took place at Solapur, Malegaon, Parbhani, Udgir, Buldana and Nanded.Trouble spread to new areas, particularly Malegaon, which were calm yesterday. At Malegaon, three people died in police firing.The director-general of police, Mr S. Ramamurthi, said the situation could have become normal but for the bandh call tomorrow.The areas under curfew were Nanded, Osmanabad, Parbhani, Malkapur, Akot, Deglur. Kamptee.► BJP warning, Page 3;No rebuilding of mosque: VHP;Anger shifts to PM in Bihar, Page 7; Arjun-Pawar meet raises eyebrows, Page ISAkola, Malegaon, Parturand entire Aurangabad district, Mr Ramamurthi said. The army’s presence would not be required anywhere outside Bombay, he asserted. He said a police officer was attacked at Pusad, the chief minister’s town. There was no firing there, he clarified.Mr Bapat said firing took place at 18 places today while 11 deaths were reported after midnight on Monday, when the toll was 63. Over 400 were injured while 630 were arrested by this evening in connection with the rioting.Jogeshwari, Dharavi, Malvani, Deonar, Bharat Nagar and Nehru Nagar localities were tense today. Five more police stations — Kurla, Nehru Nagar, Kherwadi, Chembur and Nirmal Nagar — have been put under curfew, he added.He said today’s pattern of violence was to set fire to hutments. He denied that any inflammatory pamphlets were distributed from the city mosques. He refuted that any particular community was the(Continued on Page IS)Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.City riot toll rises to 94(Continued from Page I)target of police firing.Three policemen were hacked to death by mobs at three different places, the commissioner said. Their names were Chandrakant Sawant, Chandrakant Khopkar and Dadasaheb Bhalerao.Mr Pachputc and Mr Bapat said the police presence had saved the city from carnage. Otherwise, the toll would have been in thousands since large groups clashed at many places.However, Mr Pachputc conceded that the assessment of the authorities was not correct since no one expected the violence would be of such a magnitude. Another angle to the violent incidents, he said, was that many people tried to settle old scores.At Bainganwadi (Dconar) ir north-east Bombay, the police wen hampered since there were bylane: in many hutment colonies anc these were difficult to enter. Twc deputy commissioners had beer posted there which witnessed gory scenes throughout the day.The housing minister, Mr Javed Khan, who visitd the Dconar area along with Mr Pachputc, said seven people were killed in violence. The army staged a flag march last night in the area, he added.The Congress corporator, Mr Rustom Tiranda/, told TOINS that the police were most ineffective in Dharavi. He demanded that the chief minister immediately ban the sale of liquor in the slum colony.Meanwhile, an aerial survey of the affected areas was carried out by l.t. Gen. Kalkat. Maj. Gen. B. G. Shively, commander of Maharash-tra-Gujarat area, accompanied Lt. Gen. Kalkat to the review meeting held by the chief minister.The army conducted a three-hour flag march from Regal cinema up to Byculla in central Bombay. The army had not opened fire till this evening, Mr Bapat said.The army patrolled the curfew-bound areas such as Pydhonic, Dongri, V, P. Road, Nagpada and Agripada.The police said till 3 p.m. they had resorted to firing in 26 places,nduding Bhandup, Matunga, Magpadaand Malvani. Incidents of trson were reported from ten localities, including several places in Dharavi, Kurla, Sanjay Nagar(De-3nar) and Parkari hotel (Bandra government colony).At 2.30 p.m., teenagers could be seen hurling brickbats and fire bombs at each other in pitched rooftop battles in Dharavi. Several huts were gutted and at least eight gutted vehicles littered the 90-foot road. Smoke billowed from a conflagration near Dharavi police station.A doctor at Bandra’s Bhabha Hospital said six people had been declared dead on arrival. They had probably been killed in renewed clashes in Bharatnagar and Khcrwadi. She said 47 people had been treated and three required surgical operations.Though few serious incidents were reported from central Bombay, tension continued to prcvial. The unruly mobs that roamed through the bylancs yesterday remained in their homes.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿1 dies in fresh Raroda violenceThe Times of India (J86J-current); Dec 2, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of Indiapg. 241 dies In fresh Baroda violenceBARODA, December 1 (UNI):Three people were assaulted, one of them fatally, in a renewed outbreak of violence here today, forcing authorities to impose curfew in one police station area.While two people were stabbed in the Nawa Bazar area, an autorickshaw was set on fire near Champaner Barwaza in the old city. One of the stab victims, a 32 year-old man, was declared dead on being brought to the Shri Sayaji General (SSG) hospital in the city this morning, sources at the hospital said. The autorickshaw driver, who sustained a razor injury, was also admitted to the SSG hospital.Indefinite curfew was imposed in the city police station area of the walled city at 11 a.m. to contain the violence, the police said.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Bihar town limps back to normalThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Aug 25, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of Indiapg. 19Bihar town limps back to normalThe Time* of India News ServiceSASAKAM, August 24: With the recovery of the body of a woman in Sagar locality, the death toll in this strife-tom town of Rohtas district has gone up to seven today. Two members of her family are reportedly missing.Senior police officials told TOINS that with the arrest of 48 more rumour-mongers today, so far 275 people had been arrested. They claimed that the situation was fast returning to normal. However, they said, night curfew would continue to remain in force;An assistant sub-inspector of police has been suspended for derel-' iction of duty. Similarly, show-cause notice has been served on a magistrate. The official sources said that all the magistrates had been pressed into mobile service.The sources said that no untoward incident had been reported during the past 24 hours. They, however, said that the situation was still tense. About 25 per cent shops were open today and a huge rush to purchase essential commodities was witnessed in markets.> The police said that a cook of the local Harijan hostel and three students had been arrested on the charge !of instigating communal tension.The report said that the most serious consequence of the action of the forest corporation has been a deadlock in the R$ 40-crore Valmikinagar hydel power project which envisaged production of 15 mw of power.The forest corporation’s order has affected the supply of stones and sand to the project. Another affected development project is the international Gandak canal which irrigates lakhs of hectares of land in eastern Nepal and Bihar.During the last rainy season, floodshad damaged the Done canid at various points rendering it useless. About Rs 2 crores had. been sanctioned for the repair of the canal but nothing could be done due to shortage of sand and stones. Even the construction of the road and bridge leading to the ONGG project site m the Done belt had been stopped due to this shortage, the report added. It is learnt that this is causing about Rs 1 .lakh daily loss to the national exchequer. Various development schemes under the PWD, the REO, and the Jawahar Rozgar Yojana have also come to a standstill.The report said that the forest department was indulging in such acts which were detrimental to the welfare of the region. It also pointed out that the Nepal government had encroached upon thousands of hectares of land in the Valinild sanctuary.He also called upon the people to protest against such policies of the forest corporation so that the clearing of the Gandak bed continued.Expressing shock over the policy, the Risen Sabha president of west Champaran district, Mr Rqjkausal Mishra, has stated that it would ruin the agriculture potential of north Bihar. He has urged the chief minister, Mr S. N. Sinha, to revoke the dangerous policy. -Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Flutter In Andhra Congress CirclesThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Feb 25, 1962; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9Flutter In Andhra Congress Circles“The Times of India!? News Service |HYDfcKABAU, 'February . 24: lheAndhra Pradesh Health Minister, Mr.P. V. G. Raju, today urged the Congress High Command to release Mr.N. Sanjiva Reddy from the presidentship of the Congress so that he could return to the State to lead a new government.Mr. Raju’s appeal, contained in a statement which was critical of the conditions in the State since Mr.Reddy’s withdrawal, caused a flutter among Congress circles here. Observers said the statement portended a bitter clash between Mr. Reddy and the Chief Minister, Mr. D. Sanjivayya, both of whom are standing for election to the State Assembly.Congress sources said it was unfortunate that such a statement should have been issued even before the elections were over, especially by a member of the Sanjivayya Cabinet.•t	'Election Clash In City:Man StabbedBy A Staff ReporterA quarrel between rival groups following fever-pitch election meetings in the suburbs of Bombay ended in an armed fight and the stabbing of a young man in Khar on Friday night.Latif Abdul Shaikh, the man vvlio was stabbed, is lying seriously injured in the Nanavati Hospital, -Vile Parle. His alleged assailant is stated to be Khaitan John, according to the Bandra' police, who are investigating.No arrests have been made so far.The police said that Latif and four others were standing near the government quarters, Khar, late on Friday night, after attending an election meeting, when some persons came on the scene and began to write slogans on the road. This was objected to by Latif and his friends who asked them to go away. A quarrel ensued resulting in a fight in which knives and other weapons were stated to have been used.When the police arrived on the scene, they lound Latif lying on the road with a stab wound. The others had disappeared from the scene.Menon, Kripalani Visit Bereaved ParentsBy A Staff ReporterBoth Mr. J. B. Kripalani and Mr.V.	K. Krishna Menon—rivals in the North Bombay Lok Sabha contest— visited on Saturday the house of the parents of Gopal Ambalal Patel, the 12-year-old boy who was run over by a lorry carrying supporters of Mr. Menon on Dasrathlal Joshi Road, Vile Parle, on Friday night, to convey their sympathies.	.The boy, who was perched precariously on a lorry, fell down when the driver of the lorry suddenly applied the brakes at a turn to avoid a collision. He was crushed to death beneath a lorry coming from behind.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Govt. threatens stern steps: fresh violence in E. PakistanThe Times of India (1861-current); Mar 20, 1969; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Govt, threatens stern steps: fresh violence in E. PakistanNEW DELHI, March 19. upposition demands that President Ayub Khan step down immediately, Pakistan's Home and Defence Minister, Vice-Admiral A. R. Khan, today threatened stern measures, including army action against those who indulged m or incited lawlessness as fresh violence erupted in the eastern wing-t alking to newsmen after th<Presidential Cabinet had re viewed the Iaw-and-order situa don, he said the Central Government had asked the provin' cial authorities not to tolerate further violence but take pre ventive as well as punidve step: expeditiously.Two persons were killed in fresl clashes at different places.The Army was called ouU^nd cur few imposed at Parbatipul. in tin Dinajpur district of East Pakistan following a clash between . Bengali and non-Bengalis.Radio . Pakistan said the curfew which was lifted for four hours front 3 P.M., would remain in force til 7 a.m. tomorrow. Nearly 200 peo pJe were reported to have been in iured at Parbatipur where one persor was killed. The other death occutrec in Karachi in a dash between group* of dock workers outside the pori trust office.BHASHANI FOR DACCAThe National Awami Party leader,Maulana Bhashani, expressing concern at the rift between Bengalis and non-Bengalis, cut short his stay in the western wing and was preparing »o fly back to Dacca in view of the explosive situation in the province.Another East Pakistan leader.Sheikh Muiibur Rahman, called upon democratic forces, students, workers and peasants to work vigorously for the restoration of peace.One report said opponents of the Ayub regime bad stolen police files which could be used as evidence during trials in court.	,The Home Minister criticised the recent speeches of Maulana Bhashani who had threatened a labour uprising.After the Cabinet meeting an official spokesman announced in Rawalpindi the Government’s decision to convert Radio Pakistan into an autonomous corporation from July 1 and revise the pay scales of its staff to bring them on a par with the employees in other departments.TRAINS SUSPENDEDTrain services from Dacca to several places in East Pakistan remained suspended today as drivers and firemen refused to take out trains in protest against an incident last night.Some persons had dragged the driver and firemen out of a train about SO kilometres from Dacca. While the firemen returned later, the driver has been missing so far.Garbage piled in Dacca city as municipal workers struck in support of their demands.Admiral Khan said life in West Pakistan cities was paralysed and, in East Pakistan, murder, arson and looting were the order of the day.“No one felt secure in West Pakistan. Conditions are deteriorating. In East Pakistan people are being murdered and property destroyed. Looting and arson are on the increase.Unrest prevails among the peasants and labour and Government servants are being intimidated by the use of ghe raos.”—U .N. I.Reuter adds from Karachi:Nawabzada Nasrullah Khan, leader of the People’s Democratic Movement, who led the Opposition delegation to the round table conference, said to-Contxnued on Page 9 Column 4Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.Student leader backs Mujibur RehmanContinued from Page X Column 7day at Lahore that Maulana Bhashani should announce his demands in clear terms.If the Maulana was sincerely interested in the welfare of the people, he should participate in the elections than disrupt them, the Nawabzada said.Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, leader of the six-point Awami League, said at Dacca that there appeared to be an “unholy conspiracy” to instigate people to violence and create disorder..The Sheikh said he would hold the authorities also responsible for failings to protect the^ lives and property of peaceful citizens.Mobs have looted trains, river boats and trucks and are threatening the trade in jute, the golden fibre that is Pakistan's biggest foreign exchange-earner.Jute traders have said that exports will be brought to a halt unless law and order is restored.CRIMINALS BUTCHERED Mob this week continued butchering local criminals and what' they consider corrupt elements. Reliable sources put the known death-roll at 137, but the number .coukl be much highet as the campaign goes forward in remote villages where cpmmunications are poor.Victims have been clubbed or burnt to death—some bound in chains at a stake—as mobs cheer their execution. Eight members of a family at^ Jay-montop were beheaded, and a ninth stabbed to death.Travellers' from Dacca reported people's edurts handing down summary death sentences,	-The -worst-hit areas appear to be | north of Dacca around Manikaganj and _ Jamalpur where Maulana Bhashani and his pro-Peking supporters are strongest,	'But signs point to a left-wing reign of terror moving to Dacca itself. Hitherto, East Pakistani cities have been the stronghold of Sheikh Mujibur Rehman.	.The citizens of Dacca were reported forming their own Home Guard squads. Many foreigners have sen,! their wives and families out of East Pakistan.Over half the patients from two major Dacca hospitals fled their beds yesterday as striking Government employees reported to gherao.Karachi s Unofficial reports put the death-roll in yesterday’s riots at Par-batipur at five. Two hundred were reported injured and 1,000 homes gutted in six -localities.An evening newspaper, “Leader”, reported here that Sheikh Mujibut Rehman might 'forge a new political alliancd with two West Pakistanis— the requisitionist National Awami Party’s Khan Wali Khan and Mian Mumta^ Mohammed Khan Daultana, the Council Muslim League chief.In East Pakistan yesterday a’ student leader, Mr. Tofail Ahmed, threw his support behind Sheikh Mujibur Rehman as a struggle developed between the Awami league and Maqlana Bha-shani’s NAP.Mr. Ahmed told a Kushtia crowd that Maulana Bhashani should stop saying that he was “ready for a civil war,” v : •Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿FIRE OPENED ON POLICEThe Times of India (1861-current); Nov 28, 1952; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 7FIRE OPENED ON POLICEIncident Near JammuJAMMU. November 27: One police constable was injured todav when some members of a procession opened Are at the police at Samba. 25 miles from here on the Jammu-Pathankot Road, according to reports received bv the authorities here.The police opened fire and dispersed the procession. No casualty was reported.The reports said that when the police attempted to arrest Thalcut Raghunath Singh, a wanted man who was leading a procession taken out in the afternoon, the crowd prevented them from doing so. In the scuffis that followed, one police constable was injured. The police opened fire and the procession dispersed. Thakur Raghunath Singh is still absconding.In Jammu city three persons were arrested today. Two Praja Parishad volunteers were taken into custody while they were leading a procession and the third was arrested for throwing a missile at a police official. The city is otherwise normal.—P.T.I.TECHNOLOGICAL INSTITUTE Site SelectedThe Government of India has selected a 525-acre site at Kurla, Bombay, for the Western Technological Institute, it was reliably learnt in Bombay on Thursday.The institute, which will cost two crores of rupees, will be on the line of the Kharagpur Technological Institute. Mr. S. S. Bhat-nagar, Secretary, Ministry for Research and Natural Resources, who recently visited Bombay, decided upon the site in consultation with the Government of Bombay.The building work is expected to commence early next year.Relic ReturnedThe relic of St. Francis Xavier which was stolen from St. Francis Xavier's church at Dabul, Gir-gaum, Bombay, on Tuesday, was returned to the church authorities on Thursday as mysteriously as it was lost.The relic, enclosed In an envelope, was found lying on the top of vestments in the church. The envelope was noticed by a priest just before he said his Mass.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Ahmednagar tiring kills oneA Staff ReporterThe Times of India (J86J-current); Sep 8, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Ahmednagar firing kills oneBy A Staff ReporterBOMBAY, September 7: One person was killed in police firing in Ahmednagar yesterday following a stone-throwing incident during the Ganesh immersion procession.The minister of state for home, Mr J. T. Mahajan, said that the situation was under control and curfew would be in force till 6 a.m. tomorrow.Forty people, including the deputy superintendent and 21 police personnel, were injured in the stone-throwing.The police arrested 27 people.The state police control room also reported another incident at Jamod in Buldhana district where the police had to open fire to disperse a mob.Baroda (UNI): An indefinite curfew was imposed in Rajpipla town of Bharuch district near here yesterday following group clashes.Official sources said the police opened fire to quell stone-throwing mote.Two persons injured in the firing were brought to the Sayqji General Hospital here for treatmentReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿32 hurt in clash over immersionOur CorrespondentThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 17, 1978; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 332 hurt in clash■ • • .over immersionBy Our CorrespondentBULDANA, September 16: Thirty* two people were injured in a clash between two communities at Dhaid, about 30 km from here, yesterday when a procession taking the Ganesh image for immersion. was passing through a locality. '	. 5All the injured have been admitted to the government hospital here. Some home guards, policemen and revenue officers were also injured in the incident/. On receiving the report. of the incident, the district collector, Mr.Ram an and Tiwari, and the superintendent of police,' Mr. Promod Bisariya, i rushed to Dhad with reinforcements.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿18 killed as riots rock 3 statesThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Nov 2, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1CURFEW IN 30 U.P. DISTRICTS18 killed as riots rock 3 statesHie Times of India News ServiceNEW DELHI Nov. 1GOMMUNAL clashes and police firings claimed 18 lives in Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and Biliar today.Nine people were killed in rural Bijnore in U.P., as a fall-out of the riots that claimed nine lives in Bijnore town. The state administration is understood to have replaced the superintendent of police, Mr Praveen Singh, as a consequence, of the continued rioting., In Lucknow, the army staged a flag march following clashes in the old city last night which resulted ini two deaths. Indefinite curfew continued in the state capital as government offices and business establishments remained closed for the fourth day today.Security forces opened fire at a mob of 2,000 in Aligarh district this morning, which indulged in stonethrowing and damaged government Vehicles, The police opened fire in self-defence, but the toil, if any, was riot known.One person was killed in Dibai in Bulandshahar district this morning pne body Was recovered from the noi-hit Muzaffamagar where eight •tfveS were lost two days ago.' With the escalation of violence, the ,U.P. administration has clamped cforfew on 30 districts. The whole of Eastern U.P. has been placed undercurfew for the past fortnight as well as the Bundelkhand region adjoining Madhya Pradesh and western U.P.' Thirty-six long distance trains passing through U.P. have been cancelled for an indefinite period.Five people were killed in Hyderabad and neighbouring Ranga Reddy district in Andhra Pradesh today. There were seven stabbings during a three-hour relaxation of curfew and three of the stab victims succumbed to injuries.Violence has been mainly confined to the A.P. capital. No untoward incidents have been reported from other districts.Curfew has been extended till 6 a.m. on Saturday and there will be no relaxation in Hyderabad.Eleven people have been killed in the city after the imposition of curfew on the evening of October 29.The police arrested over 500 people today in connection with specific offences and as a preventive measure in Hyderabad. One hundred BJP workers, including the president of the state unit, Mr M. Venkaiah Naidu, and the general secretary, Mr B. Dattatreya, were arrested for staging a dhama in violation of the prohibitory orders. They were released later.In all, some 1,000 people! have been arrested in the city.Rioting in the curfew-bound Patna claimed two lives till this afternoon. One person was killed when two mobs exchanged fire in a clash at Sadar Gali near Paschim Darwaza around noon. The clash stemmed! from the damage to a place of worship.An unidentified body was recovered by the police from the railway tracks near Noon-Ka-Chauraha in the Bihar capital, where rioting had begun last night Frequent explosions of bombs and crackers occurred near Noon-Ka-Chauraha, Lodi-Ka-Katra and Fasad-Ki-Maidan, while at Gorhatta and Rani-Ki-Hkidki shops were burnt.	<Curfew which was initially clamped till this morning has now been extended for an indefinite period on the entire Patna city.PTI-& UNI add:According to a report from Ayodhya atieast 500 kar'sevaks are on a 40 hours “dhama” at the northern end of the “Saryu” river bridge protesting against refusal of entry into the Ram Janambhoomi.While the kar sevaks insist on offering “puja” at the Ram Janambhoomi, the authorities continue to impress upon them that in view of the indefinite curfew in the holy town, no permission for entry could be given.Meanwhile, the situation in the holy town and Faizabad continued to be tense on the sixth day of the imposition of the curfew.A large number of kar sevaks are still here in various “dharamshalas” and temples.The vice-president of the Ram Janambhoomi Mukti Yagna Samiti, Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, told a large congregation of devotees here last night to continue their movement peacefully for the construction of the Sri Ram temple.An official spokesman denied in (Continued on Page 11)Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.‘Kar sevaks’ at the ditTof the bridge on Sarayu river, surrounded by armed police, as they try to cross into Ayodhya on Thursday. The ‘kar sevaks’ were demonstrating after three bodies were nshed out of the river. —ri i.Curfew imposed on many U.P. towns(Continued from Page 1)New Delhi that the army was called out in Ayodhya to safeguard the disputed Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid complex.Reacting to news reports this evening, he said the army had only conducted a flag march in adjoining: Faizabad town.	1He added that no branch of police or paramilitary forces was “disarmed” as “mischievously reported” by some regional newspapers.He said the situation in Ayodhya was peaceful today, but a number of “kar sevaks were still there, presumably for the kartik paurnami dip in the Sarayu river.There were also reports that more kar sevaks probably held up on the, way were arriving in Ayodhya.The spokesman said local authorities in Ayodhya today fished out three bodies from the nearby Saryu river.On the law and order situation, he said tension and fresh communal incidents were reported from several parts of the country. Of the ten casualties in such incidents today, five were in Hyderabad, four in Baroda and one in Indore.The Union minister of state for home, MrSubodh Kant Sahay, today visited riot-hit areas in Ranchi and personally heard the people’s grievances.Mr Sahay, who arrived here by a JASF plane from New Delhi, visited Doranda, Hindpirhi, Karbala Chowk ind Chutia areas, along with the: authorities and listed the problems of he riot victims taking shelter in at east half-a-dozen relief camps.The minister assured the riot violins that their dietary rate would be mhanced from Rs 3.50 to Rs five per /ictim daily.He said that he would apprise the ’rime Minister, Mr V.P. Singh, about lietary scale so that a decision could x taken in this regard immediately.In Ayodhya the police ordered a search of the river Saryu here following the recovery of three decomposed t>odies with sand bags tied to their feet but authorities have denied that security forces had dumped bodies of ‘kar sevaks” killed in Tuesday’s viol-;nce into the river.They also insisted that the toll in October 30 violence still stood at six. ‘It would be 100 per cent wrong to say that the toll has increased to nine,” the district magistrate of Faizabad, Mr Ram Sharan Srivastava said.The district authorities in Gonda lave also denied the charge of dumping of bodies by security forces.Meanwhile, the administration in Faizabad district is making arrangements to transport kar sevaks out of \yodhya.Announcements are being made over the public address system asking kar sevaks to reach the bus depot where the buses were waiting to take them to their destinations. The administration is also trying to arrange some trains to take the kar sevaks out of the district.byonCurfew has been extended another 24 hours upto 6 a.m. Saturday.Meanwhile, police used teaigas and resorted to lathi-charge to disperse stone-pelting activists of the BJP in the Choak area of Jammu city today, a report says.The BJP activists were demanding the release of 25 party workers arrested in the city yesterday during the Jammu bandh.In Indore (MP) sporadic incidents of arson continued in the curfew bound Mhow cantonment town and old Indore localities but the situation was under control, an official spokesman said.The town, where indefinite curfew \vas clamped yesterday following disturbances, was peaceful, the spokesman said.In Indore, incidents of arson were reported near Sunder Hotel near the railway station, Bhandari Mill and tension continued in Azadnagar and Bombay Bazar areas, the district collector, Mr S. V. Iyer, told PTI this morning.With one more person succumbing to injuries in hospital, the toll in the disturbances rose to 11, the spokesman added.The situation in the riot-tom cities of Jaipur, Jodhpur and Beawar remained peaceful during the curfew relaxation today.A report from Mhow said a DSP and two police jawans were injured along with 25 others in overnight incidents of arson, looting and bomb explosion. A total of 100 people were arrested in this connection.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew imposed on PalanpurThe Times of India (1861-current); Feb 5, 1986; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9Curfew imposed ©e PalaepmrThe Times ot India News ServiceAHMEDABAD, February 4: An indefinite curfew was clamped on Palanpur town following the eruption of communal violence.Initial reports said two people were injured in a group clash today when a bandh was called in the town by he Vishwa Hindu Parishad to protest against a stabbing incident at a cinema hall on Sunday.According to the director-general of police, Mr. Shivlal, the decision to impose indefinite curfew was taken at 3 p.m. as an “extra-precautionary measure.”Meanwhile, the night curfew slapped on Ahmedabad, where communal violence broke out twice last month, continued.PM counsel's delayNEW DELHI, February 4 (UNI): The supreme court today condoned the delay by counsel for the Prime Minister, Mr. Rajiv Gandhi, in filing the vakalatnama in the appeal challenging his election from Amethi.Mr. Justice Sabyasachi Mukherjee, sitting as chamber judge, allowed the application for condonation of the 74-day delay in filing the vakalatnama.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Uneasy calm in riot-hit areas of BangaloreThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 11, 1994; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9The Times of India News ServiceBANGALORE, October 10.The man cried out in desper-ation:“Look, my house has been burned down.”He had barely completed the sentence when the policemen rained lathi blows on him. He was taken away by the men in uniform while reporters touring the riot-hit Padarayanapura watched helplessly yesterday.The police assured the journalists: ‘‘All is well. The situation is under control.”There was destruction all around. Frightened residents peeped out of their houses situated along the narrow streets of this area expecting some succour from the authorities. But in vain. The police sternly warned the reporters not to talk to the residents since thismight “disturb the calm.” Indeed it was an extremely uneasy calm that prevailed on the third day of rioting. Violence had erupted in several parts of Bangalore following protests over the telecasting ofUrdu news bulletins by Doordarshan.A local doctor said the situation was explosive. “Earlier this morning the police had opened fire in the air. We can’t say when they will turn violent at the slightest provocation,” he said.In other areas where curfew was lifted life seemed to be returning to normal although the policemen on duty conceded that violence may erupt afresh.A few shops were doing brisk business. However, few vehicles were out on the roads. The traffic on Mysore Road resumed partially while BTS buses were taken off the road at noon. Most people preferred to stay indoors.The supply of milk, vegetables and other perishables to the curfew-bound areas had been badly affected. A resident of Padarayanapura, Ms Haeera, said people were allowed to come out of their houses only between 6 a.m. and 8 a.m. Vegetables were being sold at a premium in these areas.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Hyderabad under curfew: stabbingThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jan 5, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 11Hyderabad under curfew: stabbingHYDERABAD, CurfewwasJan 4 (PTI): re-imposed today in some parts of the old city, following fresh stabbing incidents last night.The city police commissioner, Mr M. V. Bhaskar Rao, said that day curfew was imposed in Barkas, under Chandrayanagutta police station limit and in Balapet and Kiitapet areas in the adjoining Ranga Reddy district as a precautionary measure.Three passengers of a bus were stabbed in Chandrayanagutta area last night. Some miscreants stopped the bus and inflicted knife injuries on the passengers. The condition of the injured, who. were admitted to the Usmania general hospital, was stated to be improving.Meanwhile, night curfew in 19 police station areas of the old city, which witnessed unprecedented communal violence last month, would continue from 10 p.m., the commissioner said.Mr Bhaskar Rao appealed to people not to believe rumours as the situation in the city was peaceful.Ahmedabad: Two women were in-jured when they were stabbed by miscreants in Shahpur area of the city last night.The assailants have been apprehended, the police said.. Meanwhile, curfew was being relaxed during the day as the situation was returning to normal in parts of the city, which witnessed an orgy of violence, leading to the death of 37nersons.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Two Injured In Firing In Kerala Village: POLICE PARTY ATTACKEDThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Apr 25, 1961; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg. 3POLICE PARTY ATTACKEDTRIVANDRUM, April 24. rpHE police fired on a hostile A crowd, 400-strong, in Man* thura, a fishing village 35 miles from here, last night, injuring a man and a woman.This is the first instance of the police opening fire during the 15 months of the Alliance Administration.It was officially stated that the police opened fire in self-defence while trying to prevent a communal clash.A youth belonging to one community was stated to have assaulted a youth of another community on Saturday. Yesterday, supporters of the injured party were reported to have beaten up a barber. Later in the night, members of the assaulted youth’s community surrounded the house of a local head master belonging to the other community.CLASH PREVENTEDThe police rushed to the area and prevented a clash,But, around 10-30 p.m., the police learnt that the same crowd had surrounded the head master’s house, threatening to destroy it.According to official sources, the only available force of five policemen, including a head constable, in that area at that time rushed to the scene. The crowd, officially estimated at 400, included several women. It attacked the police party, which found itsell on the verge of being overpowered,The police then Cited into the air three times but the crowd continued to close in. Then they fired on the crowd, A man and a woman in the crowd received minor injuries, while all the live policemen suffered injuries at the hands of the mob,A strong police force is now keepingReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿3 die in firing in AhmedabadThe Times of India (J86J-current); Dec 19, 1970; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 13	die in firing in Ahmedabad“Hie Times of India” News ServiceAHMEDABAD, December 18.THREE people including a 40-year-old woman, were killed when a police constable fired in “self defence” in Dariapur area of Ahmedabad today.A constable, Rustam Madhav -Rao, tvho was attacked by a group of people with knives, was admitted to :he civil hospital with multiple in-uries. His condition was, however, Jescribed to be out of danger.Curfew has been imposed in the Oariapur locality and the police have ilso banned the assembly of more ban four persons, processions and ;arrying of arms in the entire city is a precautionary measure.While the assailants managed to scape in an auto-rickshaw, the stray Juliets fired by the constable killed t 60-year-old man, Mr. Dalsukhbhai Vfaganlal, Mrs. Kasiben Premchand ind a 22-year-old scooter-rider, Mr. tfanubhai Narottamdas Shah, who was passing by.Parliament adjourns‘The Times of India” News Service'NEW DELHI, December 18: tlinutes before the Lok Sabha amounted sine die today, the Prime Minister, Mrs. Indira Gandhi, walked n and wished all members a happy ind prosperous new year.“A general election too,” a member sked. ’ ■Mrs. Gandhi did not respond. P.T.I. adds: The Rajya Sabha also djoumed sine die.	,Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Pune still simmeringThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); May 3, 1988; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1The Times of India News ServicePUNE, May 2.THE situation in Pune was by and large peaceful today though there were a few minor incidents of violence and arsonlate last night.Tension prevailed in the city and its surrounding areas since Saturday morning when miscreants desecrated an idol in a temple. Curfew had to be immediately clamped on certain areas where people gathered in large numbers in front of the temple and showed signs of retaliation.In last night’s stray incidents, stonethrowing was reported from some areas and a structure in front of a place ofworship was set ablaze in the Khadki police station area. An attempt to,set on fire a shop at Phadke Houd Chowk was also reported.There was, however, no untoward incident during the curfew-relaxation periods between six and ten in the morning and four and six in the evening. The deputy commissioner of police. Mr S. C. Mathur. said curfewwould be relaxed tomorrow between 4 p.m. and 6 P.M.Mr Mathur said he did not agree with the statement reportedly made by the former chief minister, Mr Shared Pawar, and some other Congress leaders that the police had not handled the situation properly.The police said there were incidents of stone-throwing on places of worship in the area under the Bhosari and Farashkhana police stations last night There were also reports of assaults from some areas. No stabbing incident occurred today.Meanwhile, the five people arrested in connection, with the desecration incident are being interrogated by the officers of the crime branch. So far, the police have not been able to establish their connections with any political communal or social organisation.Mr Mathur refused to divulge the information provided by the main accused in the case on the ground that the police was verifying the statement. He said he could not confirm whether there was any outside agency behind those arrested. Mr Mathur said the main culprit was a normal person andnot insane as reported in a section of the press.The police said during the last 12 hours ending 5 P.M. today, 11 offences were registered and 40 persons arrested, taking the total number of arrests in the last three days to 108. The police also took into custody 67 persons under preventive detention raising the total number of such arrests to 112.The police have opened 16 centres to assist the public during curfew hours. The centres have been provided with two S.T. buses, four jeeps and some auto-rickshaws. So far, 3,000 people have availed of the centres’ facilities.The special IGP, Mr S. P. Singh, who visited the trouble spots in Pune, said that he did not see any political motive behind the act of desecration.Mr B. J. Misar, police commissioner, said if the situation continued to be calm, curfew restrictions could be lifted from Wednesday.Our Staff Reporter adds from Bombay: The Maharashtra minister of state for home, Mr J. T. Mahajan, today said the situation in Pune was now “under control”.Speaking to reporters here, Mr Mahajan said the causes for the outbreak of violence were being investigated and assessed. It was difficult to pinpoint a single cause as the reasons for the eruption of trouble differed from place to place.The police had been directed to employ minimum force and use their “commonsense” and discretion while taking any preventive measures, including arrests and lathi-charges on rioting mobs.Picture on Page 3Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Six stabbed in Hyderabad; probe likelyThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 24, 1984; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 7Six stabbed inHyderabad; probe likelyHYDERABAD, September 23 (PTI): The curfew-bound Old City and adjoining areas remained “incident free” during the curfew relaxation period from 8 a.m.-6 p.m. today, the police said.However, a 55-year-old man was knifed to death half an hour before relaxation of curfew in the strife-torn Mangalahat area in the Old City this morning taking the death toll to 28 in the disturbances since September 9T According to a late report ‘six persons .were stabbed at about 9 p.m. They were rushed to Osmania hospital, the police said.The day curfew in the entire Old City and adjoining areas will be lifted tomorrow, Mr R. Prabha-kar Rao, the city police commissioner said.The chief minister, Mr N. T.Rama Rao, who visited the riot-hit areas today, told reporters that he would consider ordering a judicial enquiry into the violent incidents that took place on September 9,He said the state government would also consider constituting special courts for the trial of offenders.1-Ie announced that 620 metric tons of rice would be distributed free to 1,20,000 affected people in the curfew-bound areas at the rate of five kg per family.Poojari’s warning to bank officialsGWALIOR, September 23 (UNI):The Union deputy finance minister, Mr Janardhan Poojari, said today that strict action would be taken against bank officials found violating the Union government’s directive to give loans without security. 'Addressing a loan distribution mela at Mohana, about 55 km from here, he regretted that some bank officers were not implementing the directive to provide loans up to Rs 5,000 to the weaker sections without security.He said several farmers had complained to him that they had not been provided loans in spite of approaching the banks several times.Loans amounting to Rs 3.5 crores were distributed to 3,749 people' at the mela. This included about Rs 1 crore distributed to 2,357 people under the Integrated Rural Development Programme.Bank staff threaten■	i	*	•‘direct action’TIRUCHIRAPALLI, September 23 (PTI):	The All-India Con-federation of Bank Officers Organisations (AICOBOO) has decided to resort to “direct action”, including an indefinite strike, if their demands, are not met by November 15.The AICOBOO secretary-general,Mr V. Subramanian, told newsmen today here that talks with bank managements on wage revision tor ’officers, had been fruitless. Negotiations with the government are scheduled to take place in Bombay on September 25.	iOn loan melas, Mr Subramanian urged the government to'checkpolitical interference in sanctioning of loans, especially with regard to the quantum. The Centre should take th.e' responsibility for recovering loans from the beneficiaries, he said.Zail Singh not to be.	‘	' •summoned in Sept.AMRITSAR, September 23 (UNI):The President, Mr Zail Singh, will not be summoned by the five Sikh high priests before September 30, the deadline announced by the priests for the pull-out of the Army from the Golden Temple complex.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Clashes, curfew in FaizabadThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Mar 30, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1The Times of India News ServiceLUCKNOW, March 29.A STATE-WIDE alert was ordered today following a clash between members of two communities in Faizabad and reports of tension from most other towns in the wake of the Babri Masjid Action Committee’s preparations to intensify its a citation and the Vishwa Hindu Parishads’ resolve to counter it.An indefinite curfew was imposed in Faizabad after an exchange of brickbats between two groups, a vain attempt to set a cinema house on fire, and several reports of bombs throwing in the riot-tom town. But an official spokesman here, while confirming reports of a clash and tension, denied that there was any bomb-throwing incidentThe main markets in Lucknow and most other towns remained closed today in response to the bandh call by the Vishwa Hindu Parishad. The state government already having reinducted reinforcements .in sensitive towns, there was nt> untoward incident anywhere, barring Faizabad. But the communal tension is likely to mount in the next few days as preparations for the Ram Navdmi festival on April 7 are already underway.A top-level government source confided that additional force had already been rushed this morning to Faizabad. After the proposed demonstration outside the Parliament House by the Babri Masjid Action Committee tomorrow, the state-level Babri Masjid Committee is expected to launch a stir in Faizabad and other towns.The state home secretary, Mr. Mata Prasad, while briefing newsmen in the afternoon, claimed that the one-day bandh called by the Vishwa Hindu Parishad had passed of peacefully barring the incidents in Faizabad. He said some reasons, including personnel, sustained injuries in the incidentsparked off by an attempt to force closure of shops in one of the localities in the town.According to the TOINS correspondent in Faizabad, trouble started When members of a minority community started hurling stones on the volunteers of the parishad, while they were moving in Chowk, Subzimandi, and Ghosena localities, appealing to the people to close their establishments.Following the outbreak of violence, thedistrict authorities clamped curfew for an indefinite period. Two BJP leaders, Mr. Satya Pal and Mr. Raj Pal, were among the injured. Twelve persons were arrested for rioting.As in Lucknow, so in other major towns of UP, entire business activities of markets where Sunday is not observed as a holiday, came to a halt in response to the bandh call today.RALLY PLAN (TOINS from New Delhi): Mr. Syed Shahabuddin, MP and convener of the Babri Masjid coordination committee, stated in a press conference on Sunday that they were going ahead with their programme of holding a mass rally at the Boat Club on Monday where the future programme of the committee would be announced.Mr. Shahabuddin said that all the political parties, including Congress, had been invited to take part.Kanpur (TOINS): The bandh passed off peacefully amidst elaborate security arrangements and intensive patrolling by. the police and district administration officials. No major incident was reported from any part of the city.Gorakhpur (TOINS): An • unprecedented “bandh” was observed by the members of Hindu and Sikh communities in Gorakhpur. All businessmen belonging to these communities kept the shutters of their establishments down.Allahabad also observed a complete bandh. All the major marketing centres, including shops, in small localities remained closed. .Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿U. S. to aid Afghan rebels directlyThe Times of India (J86J-current); Sep 4, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1WASHINGTON, SEPTEMBER 3 (tJNI): In a major reversal of their ten-year-old war policy, the U.S. and Pakistan have cut financial assistance and arms supplies to the seven Peshawar-based Afghan rebel parties and are attempting to deliver guns and money directly to guerilla commanders and tribal leaders insideWashington Post quoting diplomatic and rebel sources, says the new strategy aims at reducing the infighting among the Mujahideens within Afghanistan and also to check the influence of the most extreme Islamic fundamentalist leaders.It quotes some officials to say that the new approach will lead to broaden political support for the rebels and increased military effectiveness.MOSCOW, September 3 (PTI): At least 85 people, 14 of them civilians, have been killed in the last 24 hours in rebel rocket attacks on Kabul and the army retaliation against them in Kfiost district, reports here said today.'' fourteen civilians were killed and nearly 60 wounded when the rebels fired missiles at a crowded market in Kabul yesterday, Radio Moscow said.The Jalalabad garrison carried out an operation to clear Sorhurd district of rebels, killing 13 of them and wounding 17.Alert as 3 die in Bihar clashesRANCHI, Sept 3 (UNI): An alert has been sounded in Chotanagpur after three people were killed and Several injured in a clash between two groups at Sabarwa in Palmau district yesterday, official reports here said today.' Four shops were looted during the clash which was a sequel to a dispute Over the demolition of the boundary wall of a religious place in the town.The south Chotanagpur deputy inspector-general of police and the police superintendent were campaing in the area, the reports said.Additional forces have been deployed to prevent any further incidents. ■<U.S. to aid Afghan rebels directlyistan.85 die in Afghan fightingReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Arms seized in riot-hit MhowThe Times of India (1861-current); Aug 19, 1980; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 5A house gutted by arsonists in Mhow cantonment on Friday.Arms seized in riot-hit MhowBy Our Correspondent	tr3INDORE, August 18:	The totalnumber of arrests in the curfew- -. bound Mhow town, which was rock- . ed by violent incidents on Friday, lc has risen to 60.	”The police yesterday recovered country-made revolvers and other lethal weapons in four raids following C a minor clash between groups belong- n ing to two, different communities in r< the railway colony . on -the. periphery S of the town.	vThe situation otherwise is reported normal. Owing to the, curfew, some h15,000	persons., who- travel to Indore <] from Mhow for their jobs are said c to be affected.Mr. Ramesh Saxena, collector of Indore . .district, told “The Times of India” that efforts were bring made to regularise the supply i iff essential commodities;; i^ ..tho.vi, .cut^^und areas, * A-compady-bf’the-- Boraer* Se- I curify. Force Ted by .deputy command- n ant P. Lii'Jiwari;; was ; continuing, to ai patrol the riotdiit Idealities. ,	CThe Union minister for housing, v* Mr. P: C _ Sethi,: vtho lyisjte^r'l'pbw, has' asked 'the-'idistti'Ct authorities ■ to s. arrange for prompt, payment, bf com- n pensation of about Rs. 3 lakhs to the affebtde people. He also appealed for'■ their imetiediate rehabilitation. ^... . ., e]Educational bodies if closed in Indore lBy Our Correspondent Q_	’	n. I'NtDpRE, August .18: All educa- g tional institutions in Indore have been n closed for three days starting from ’ today following minor clashes between members of two communities.Prohibitory order under section 144 Cr. P.C. has been promulgated.Meanwhile, Mhow, 22 kms. from here, continued to be under curfew for the fourth day today.Sixty arrests have so far been made.PTI adds: _Sporadic incidents of stone-throwing, bursting of crackers and throwing of aerated bottles were reported from certain localities in Indore city on Monday.The police however, reported that the situation was under complete control though there were signs of tension in some localities. Only one incident of a person being injured in the clashes was received so far, the police said.Rioting could bare been averted: SethiBy Our CorrespondentRAIPUR, August 18: The Union housing minister, Mr. P. C, Sethi, told the Indore Peace Committee here yesterday that the Madhya Pradesh local self-government minister, Mr. Suresh Seth, was intimated on August 14 regarding secret informa-lion possessed by Mr. Sethi about the possibility of an outbreak of violence in Indore on August 15.If Mr. Sethe had acted promptly, the rioting at Mhow on Independence Day could have been averted, Mr. Sethi claimed.After touring the riot-hit Mhow, Mr. Sethi told newsmen that he had even cautioned the chief minister, Mr. Arjun Singh, to be vigilant as he visualised trouble.Ban order in MandsaurBy Our CorrespondentINDORE, August 18 : Prohibitory order under section 144 Cr. P. C. was promulgated in Mandsaur following a clarii between two groups of students last night.The order will remain in force till August 24.Prohibitory order is in force in Rat-lam too.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Furore in Parliament over Varanasi riots: The Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Nov 21, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1The Times of India News ServiceNEW DELHI, November 20.HTHE recent Varanasi riots trig-i. gered uproarious scenes in both houses of Parliament on the opening day of the month-long winter session today.Members belonging to parties other than the BJP, the ruling party in Uttar Pradesh, severely criticised the state government for its alleged failure to check the disturbances. They urged the Centre to take effective steps to curb the communal menace.In the Rajya Sabha, Dr Ratnakar Pandey (Congress) who raised the issue through a special mention demanded dismissal of the BJP government in U P. Some members demanded a full-fledged discussion on the riots and a judicial inquiry into the disturbances. The creation of a special anti-riot police force was also demanded by certain members.In the Lok Sabha, the issue was raised during zero hour by the Janata Dal leader, Mr V,P. Singh, who lashed out at the U.P. government for its failure to handle thesituation effectively, resulting in the death of several innocent people.Non-BJP opposition members also assailed the Central government for its silence on the incidents and demanded an immediate statement on the subject.Mr Arjun Singh, human resources development minister, said the home minister would ascertain the facts and make a statement “very soon.While expressing the government’s willingness to have a discussion on the riots, Mr Arjun Singh emphasised that such debates could only be of academic value until the country was prepared to boldly face certain trends and ideas which had been “holding it to ransom for some years.Passions ran high at times during the 50-minute turmoil and the speaker, Mr Shivraj Palil, had a tough time maintaining order. At one stage, Mr Rajnath Sonkar (JD) rushed into the well of the house and squatted there. He was persuaded by some other members to go back to his scat.Non-BJP members were also incensed by a remark made by Mr S.C. Dixit (BJP) that the visit by some political leaders to Varanasi in the wake of the riots was inopportune. The SJP leader, Mr Chan-dra Shekhar, Mr Indrajit Gupta (CPI) and many others took serious exception to the remark.Mr V.p. Singh, who charged the U.P. government with laxity, criticised the manner in which the state police and the Provincial Armed Constabulary had conducted themselves. The Centre should spell out the steps it proposed to take in regard to the incidents, he demanded.The CPM leader, Mr Somnath Chatterjce, described the riots as “another black chapter in our history and suggested that a parliamentary team be sent to Varanasi to study the situation and recommend relief and other necessary measures.Mr Dixit, while describing the incidents as unfortunate, said these should be viewed in the context of the overall situation in the state which had in recent past remained free from communal disturbances. His bid to defend the administration led to loud protests from JD members as well as some other members who challenged his contention.Mr Ibrahim Sulaiman Sait and Mr E. Ahmed (Indian Union Muslim League) also vehemently criticised the U.P. government forits handling of the situation.Mr Chandra Shekhar suggested that a team comprising the opposition leader, Mr L.K. Advani, and two other BJP stalwarts, Mr A.B. Vajpayee and Mrs Vijayaraje Scin-dia, should visit Varanasi for an on-the-spot inquiry. He expressed surprise that while Mr Dixit had been allowed by the authorities to enter Varanasi, leaders like Mr Ajit Singh (JD) had been prevented from doing so.Mr Ajit Singh said the administration had acted in a partisan manner and regretted that the chief minister or the home minister had not visited the city.Mr M.L. Khurana (BJP) invited protests from various members when he said the riots should not be exploited for political mileage. He ridiculed the demand for the BJP government’s dismissal.Mr Advani, while describing the incidents as tragic, said those responsible for them should be punished. The Varanasi riots had particularly pained him because his party had been claiming with a sense of gratification that festivals like “Moharrum”, which had in the past led to tension and violence, had passed off peacefully.Cong, rescinds step on repoll boycottThe Times of India News ServicePATNA, November 20: In a dramatic development, the Congress today reconsidered its decision of boycotting repoll and counting process in Barh and Madhepura parliamentary constituencies.In view of the serious note of the Central leadership, over such decision, the BPCC chief, Mr LahtanChaudhury, and other officebearers and* the Congress legislature party leader, Dr Jagannath Mishra, today met in an emergency meeting and decided to participate in repoll and counting process in the two parliamentary constituencies like Gaya Lok Sabha seat.The BPCC chief had earlier stated that the party would only participate in the repoll and counting process in Gaya parliamentary constituency, welcoming the stand of the election commission for holding repoll in 242 polling stations. But the party, he had said, would boycott re-polling and counting in Madhepura and Barh Lok Sabha seat, protesting the decision of the commissionReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Masjid panel puts off Ayodhya marchThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 13, 1988; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1The Times of India News ServiceNEW DELHI, October 12.f HE Babri Masjid action committee today called off t$e scheduled “march to Ayodhya” on Friday.' The announcement of the com-ntittee decision was made by Syed Shhhabuddin, convener, alter another round of talks with the Union home minister, Mr Buta Singh. The Uttar Pradesh chief mimster, Mr N. D. Tiwari, was also present.Both Mr Buta Singh and Mr Tiwari appealed to Muslim leaders to withdraw their agitation as also the proposed march on October 14 in view of the deteriorating communal situation. in Uttar Pradesh. The home minister also repeated his commitment that the government would take action toexpedite hearing of the title suit over the issue now pending before the Allahabad high court.Mr Shahabuddin said the decision to call off the march was taken in view of the “grim communal situation” prevailing in various parts of the country. The other committee members said that they did not want to incite communal passions and were in favour of promoting communal harmony.An assurance was given to the committee that steps would be initiated for expeditious hearing of the pending title suit in Allahabad high court soon after the festival season in the event of a negotiated settlement not coming through.■ The suit relates to contentions made by both Hindus and the Muslims staking their claim on Ram Jaijambhoorni- While the Muslims claim that the disputed place' ofworship is a 16th century mosque built by the Moghul emperor Babar, the Hindus say that it is the birth place of Lord Rama.The next round of discussion with the Ram Janambhoomi Mukti Yajna Samiti would be held after dussehra.Mr Buta Singh repeated his assurance that if these talks failed to yield results, the judicial process would be expedited.“We hope the government will fulfil its commitment to refer the case to a three-member bench of the Allahabad high court. This will meet the longstanding aspiration of the entire Muslim community,” Shahabuddin said.He said the co-ordination committee had always co-operated with the Centre and the Uttar Pradesh government in settling the dispute through negotiation, but they had adopted a rigid stand.The committee statement reiterated its demand that a three-member special bench should hear the title suit continuously. The case should preferably be shifted to a high court in south India in view of the tension in north India and heard by judges not belonging to both Hindu and Muslim communities.Lucknow (UNl): Two more people were killed in continued violence over the controversy in curfew-bound Muzaffamagar today taking the toll in clashes since yesterday to 17.The army, called out in the town yesterday, staged a flag march today.Two of the injured in yesterday’s clashes in the twon died today. One person injured in a stabbing incident in Khatauli yesterday also succumbed to his wounds.	-Prohibitary orders have been promulgated in Lucknow town to remain in force for two months.Meanwhile, troops, police and personnel of the Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) were patrolling the curfew-bound areas of Muzaffamagar.Reports from the town said incidents of arson continued till the small hours of today. A total of 19 such incidents were reported.	,The indefinite curfew reimposed yesterday following a fresh outbreak of violence will continue, a government spokesman said.The total number of arrests made in Muzaffamagar has touched 400 since Saturday when rioting broke out following a bandh call given by the Bajrangdal and some other organisations on the Ram Janambhoomi-Babri Masjid issue.Seventy-two people have been injured since the outbreak of clashes yesterday, the spokesman said.However, no incident has been reported in Khatauli since re-imposition of curfew yesterday afternoon. A total of 29 people had been arrested there.In Aligarh, an adequate police force was patrolling the five affected areas in the town. The number of arrests since the violence broke out on October 8 has reached 225.Besides, three persons have been detained under the National Security Act.Mr Buta Singh today reviewed the situation with the (J.P. chief minister, Mr N. D. Tiwari, who is in the capital.The Centre has assured all assistance to the state government to restore normalcy in the troubled areas.The next round of talks with the members of the Ram Janambhoomi Mukti Yajna Samiti and other Hindu leaders would be held after the Dussehra festivals.The coordination committee had earlier deferred the march scheduled for August 12 following mediatory efforts initiated by Mr Buta Singh-Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Houses set on fire in Yavatmal clashThe Times of India (J86J-current); Apr 30, 1980; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 15District news in briefHouses set on fire inYavatmal clashYAVATMAL, April 29 <PTi): In a clash between members of two communities, four houses and' a pan shop were set on fire late last night in the sweepere’ colony on the outskirts of the town.According to the police, the trouble started over a quarrel between boys of the two communities in the afternoon.	.• _AJaterlJn the night, a mob of about 200 attacked the sweepers’ coloriy and looted some of the houses. Following stone-throwing by either side, eight persons, including two women, were injured.	’. The district magistrate, Mr. A. H. Abhyankar, and the superintendent of pohoe, Mr. R, B. Pawar reached die spot with police reinforcements and brought the situation under control.Two persons have been arrested, Mr. Pawar told PTI. Prohibitory orders banning assembly of five or more persons has been clamped in the area for eight days.Kolhapur (UNI): Tobacoo-growere from Kolhapur in Maharashtra and the adjoining Nipani area of Karnataka will ho3d a'rally at Nipani, 40 kra. from here, to press their demand for the | monopoly purchase of tobacco. ■_ Bidi workers at Nipani will also join the rally where a decision will be taken on the agitators’ future course of action, tobacco-growers’ leaders Mr. S. K. Patdl and Mr. M. A. Nadk told newsmen here on Tuesday.Nasik (PTI): Deposits worth Rs. 25 croits were collected in this silver jubilee year of the Nasik District Central Co-Operative Bank, its chairman, Mr. Maloljirao Mogal, told newsmen here on Monday.He said those who would pay off their dues before June 30 would get remission in interest. As a part of, the celebration of . the silver jubilee year, 943 employees of the bank would receive Rs. 370,000 as ex-grafia.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿U.P riot toll rises to 22The Times of India (J86J-current); Oct 15, 1988; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 9U.P. riot toll rises to 22LUCKNOW, October 14: The toll ii the riots in Muzaflfamagar rose to 22 with three more people succumbing ti injuries in the past 24 hours.Meanwhile, indefinite curfewclamped on the three towns of Muzalfamagar, Aligarh and Khatauli in thi wake of group clashes over the Ran Janambhoomi-Babri Masjid dispute continued today.With the three deaths, total toll ir the recent riots since October 8 in th< three towns has gone up to 28. Foui people died in Aligarh and two ir Khatauli.	.The state home secretary, Mr S. K.Tripathi, said barring a minor case oi arson in Muzaffamagar last night no incident was reported from anywhere in the state.Mr Tripathi claimed that the situation in all the three towns was “well under control.”Harijans, Vanniyars clash againCUDDALORE, October 13 (PTI);Harijans and Vanniyars clashed at Puduppalayam village near Panruti in Tamil Nadu’s South Arcot district today within 24 hours of signing a peace accord by leaders of the two communities.	. 'About ten persons were injured in the clash, which broke out when Vanniyars in Puduppalayam objected to a Republican leader hoisting a party flag there. The police and revenue officials brought the situation under control.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿7 dead in Assam communal clashesThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Nov 19, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1GUWAHATI, Nov. 18.AT LEAST seven persons have been killed and several injured in communal clashes in the Hailakandi area of southern Assam since last night even as troops were called out today to control the situation.The indefinite curfew clamped on the town, could not prevent the chain of violence. According to reports here, over 20 houses were burnt down apart from several other cases of arson and looting.The highly-sensitive area of Hailakandi in the Barak valley has ' been placed under curfew several times in the recent past because of continuing tension there.The town last witnessed communal clashes on October 24 in the wake of the developments relating to , the Ram Janambhoomi-Babri Masjid controversy.PTI & UNI adds:I A report from New Delhi says thai i indefinite curfew, was clamped or i Aligarh town yesterday as violent , incidents continued for the second i day today.	.i Five people were injured in grouf i clashes and brickbatting in Lari: : locality in Aligarh this afternoon. Th< f police said miscreants also set ablazi I two houses. A fruit-seller was stabbec and hospitalised.One person was killed in violen1 i incidents in the city on Friday evening.Meanwhile, a report from Meerut says that the indefinite curfew reimposed in the Devapuri and Anandpuri areas continues even though no untoward incident has been reported since yesterday, when a government shopowner was shot dead in Devapuri.The district magistrate, Mr G. C. Chaturvedi said that 35 persons had been arrested in yesterday’s shooting incident at Devapuri, but none of them were charged for murder and the alleged assailants are still at large.The number of persons killed in' communal riots since November 1 is 23, of which nine are yet to be identified. The number of injured has risen to 20 from 15 and 710 persons have been arrested, Mr Chaturvedi said.The state government today declared grant of Rs one lakh to the next of kin of each of the deceased and Rs4,000	to each of the injured, he said.A four-hour curfew relaxation in the riot-tom areas of Delhi’s walled city today passed off peacefully. The police said the situation was fast returning to normal.Curfew was imposed after rioting during a procession on November 14 left eight people dead and several injured.The situation in the riot-affected cities of Jaipur, Chomu and Jodhpur was largely peaceful, barring an attack on a place of worship in Jaipur’s walled city.According to the police, tension (Continued on Page 13)Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.v j7 die in clashes(Continued from Page 1)prevmieu unci liii&uGauid auatKtu aplace of worship in the area under the Bramapuri police station this morning. Peace was restored immediately with the reinforcement of armed forces.The district magistrate, Mr V. S. Singh, said house-to-house searches were on to unearth weapons in Ghomu and Manoharpur in Jaipur district. More than 1,000 anti-social elements have been taken into custody from Jaipur, Chomu and Manoharpur, he addeid.A report from Moradabad says the Uttar Pradesh Bharatiya Janata Party chief, Mr Rajendra Kumar Gupta, along with two other district party leaders were today arrested in Said-pur while on their way to Bijnaur.A ban has been imposed on the entry of the BJP leaders into Bijnaur district following communal riots early this month.	.In Allahabad, the president of the Indian Muslim youth conference, Mr Milkhtar Abbas Naqvi, urged the Qentral government to enact a legis-latibn to enable handing over the Rajh Janambhoomi-Babri Masjid site at Ayodhya to the Hindus before 6tb December, failing which, he said, the situation will again become explosive.Only such a step can resolve the issue and create a congenial atmosphere in the country, he said.* The existence of Babri Masjid al the Ram Janambhoomi is only serving the “selfish interest of Muslim fundamentalists and so-called secular power hungry politicians,” he said.Mr Naqvi said, “Babri Masjid has noreligious significance for Muslims, it is the only destructive symbol oi Ba^ar.”JtJeanwhile, in New Delhi, the people’s union for civil liberties ;(PUCL) today demanded a high-level judicial enquiry into the violation ol human rights by law enforcemeni agencies in events related to Ayodhys (&ue before October 30.This alone can give a sense o: 'Confidence to the various sections o: the society, the PUCL said in i statement here.The statement signed by Mr Ra jirider Sachar and Mr Y. P. Chhibbar quoting complaints and newspapei reports, said the law enforcemen agencies of various state govern ments “have acted arbitrarily and ii tomplete violation of the rights of th< citizens by mass arrests and excessivi use of force”.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿7 killed in U.P. riotsJAGDISH BHATT The Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Mar 29, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 17 killed in U.P. riotsBy JAGDISH BHATT The Times of India News ServiceSAHARANPUR, March 28: At least seven people, including two women and a child, were killed and 27 injured when communal clashes broke out during a religious procession here last night.The condition of 15 of the injured was reported to be serious. Unofficial sources said seven persons were killed and SO injured.Curfew was imposed on the town and the DIG (Meerut range), Mr Vijay Shankar, today said it would remain in force for at least the next 24 hours.According to the divisional commissioner, Mr Shiv Ranjan, the trouble began when a procession, led by Hindu leaders, neared a mosque and some processionsists made provocative speeches and raised slogans.Some youths retaliated by throwing stones. In the ensuing clash, Molotov cocktails and firearms were used.As the violence spread in the Shahidganj, Morganj, Hiranmaran and Naya Bazar areas, about 50 shops were gutted and some vehicles set on fire.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Baroda clashes over rathvatraThe Times of India (1861 -current); Sep 25, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 15Baroda clashes over rathvatraBARODA, September 24 fPTI): The police lobbed 12 teargas shells and fired one round to disperse a stone-throwing mob near the Pan-igate area of the city late last night.nowever, no one was injured in the firing.The trouble arose when two groups of people clashed over putting up banners of “Somnath-Ayodhya rathyatra,” which is to commence tomorrow.Both the groups indulged in heavy brickbatting and hurling of acid bulbs and soda water bottles.The police also burst 15 teargas shells to disperse clashing groups in Dudiwala . Mohalla and Bhadra Achheri areas of Panigate locality. Three SRP jawans were injured in the stone-throwing by the mob, the police said. >The police have intensified patrolling in the area. Fifteen persons were rounded up in connection with the disturbances.Madras (UNI): The CPM general secretary Mr E. M. S. Nam-boodiripad, today said that the construction of a Ram temple without demolishing the mosque in Ayodhya should be the basis for finding a solution to the vexed	Ram-janambhoomi • Babri Masjid issue.Talking to newsmen here, he said the request by the members of the Muslim community that the existing structure of a mosque in the disputed area should not be demolished and the demand by the Hindu community to construct a temple for Lord Ram in that place seemed to be legitimate.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Failure In LucknowThe Times of India (1861-current); Dec 18, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 12Failure In LucknowWith Agra joining Aligarh, Meerut, Etah, Bulandshahr, Kanpur and Varanasi in the grotesque chain of communal violence in Uttar Pradesh, the position of Mr Mulayam Singh Yadav has become quite untenable. It is not merely that the administration proved unable, and in some places unwilling, to control the widespread rioting, but that there is no real government left in the state any longer. There are persistent accusations, not all of them unjustified, that far from dousing primordial passions, the police and para-military forces are themselves playing a partisan role. Indeed, the situation has deteriorated to such an extent that it needs only a minor provocation or an irresponsible rumour for otherwise responsible citizens to be overwhelmed by communal frenzy. True, the chief minister is not entirely to blame for this growing polarisation along religious lines, but if inflammatory videos, audio cassettes and announcements from places of worship are striking a responsive chord among people, it could well be because popular faith in the government has been severely eroded. As things stand today, Mr Yadav’s energetic anti-communalism campaign has unfortunately misfired and the chief minister himself has become the object of passionate controversy. What took place in Ballia last week, in the presence of Mr Chandra Shekhar, was a small indication of the depth of feelings against Mr Yadav. It now appears that his mere presence at the helm of affairs in Lucknow is contributing to a rapid deterioration of communal relations. No amount of populist shows, such as the one witnessed in the BKU stronghold of Sisauli last week, can alter this stark reality.Matters have been further complicated by the growing hostility of the state Congress to the chief minister. When the Congress Parliamentary Board pressured the party legislators in U.P. to support Mr Yadav in the vote of confidence on November 20, it did so on the basis of certain concrete assurances. Reduced to bare essentials they centred on the hope that Mr Yadav would project himself as an even-handed chief minister, particularly on communal issues. This pressure was responsible for the state administration’s distinct softening of its position on the ongoing VHP agitation in Ayodhya. Unfortunately for Mr Yadav, the volte face has not succeeded in reducing the popular antipathy. The recent spate of communal riots suggest that along with the Hindutva forces, the chief minister has aroused the displeasure of the Muslim community who also nurture a profound sense of betrayal. And now that the Congress has more or less declared him to be a liability, Mr Yadav is in the unenviable position of being a leader sans credibility and legitimacy. He would do well to emulate Dr Chenna Reddy’s example.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Battalions rush to BiharThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 28, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1RHAGALP1JR TOLL RISES TO 119NEW DELHI, Oct. 27 (UNI).THE Central government has sent an additional 39 companies of its paramilitaryIXr/toe tn Pthoriv> wu »w *»*»•••• •	'The forces have already been deployed for the maintenance of law and order in areas affected by violence, according to the chief minister, Mr Satyendra Narayan Sinha.Patna (T01NS): The Union home minister, Mr Buta Singh, said 12 districts of Bihar had been marked “communally sensitive, where a comprehensive action plan was being implemented to check the current spate of communal violence.Meanwhile, the toty in riot-tom Bhagalpur today rose to 119 with 56 more people succumbing to their injuries.The Union government had agreedto help in all ways possible and had also assessed the total requirement of armed forces in Bihar. Official sources said the state government had asked for SO companies. The special secretary, Union home ministry, Mr J. M. Qureshi, said three companies had left for Bhagalpur by train today while seven more companies from Delhi and three each finom Guwahati, Agartala and Bangalore would be flown in by tonight.The action plan, drawn up by the state government in consultation with the Centre, has fixed responsibility on senior administrative and police officials of the districts and broadly related to neutralising communal and anti-social elements with the help of armed forces and stepping up relief operations, he told newsmen at the Raj Bhavan.The districts, which had been: “identified by the central intelligence agencies, were Bhagalpur, Chaibasa,Gumla, Gaya, Hazaribagh, Pumea, Muzaffarpur, East Champaran, Darbhanga, Aurangabad, Nalanda and Rohtas.Besides, the Union government was also considering ban on processions of all religions throughout the country to contain communal disturbances, he said. “However, as the ban is a sensitive issue, all other possibilities, including effecting it in communally sensitive areas alone, would be explored before a final decision is taken,” he said.The home minister said in Bhagalpur — where official sources confirmed 45 deaths till this morning — was “better than yesterday, adding he could not comment on the death roll in view of the conflicting reports.Mr Buta Singh admitted that “laxity” on part of the administration had let the situation deteriorate in Bhagalpur. “Preparations to meet(Continued on Page 20) .Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.Battalions rushBihartoContinued from Page 1*such eventualities were inadequate, which have now been rectified” he said, summing up the outcome of his meetings with the chief minister. MrS. N. Sinha, and the officials last night.Asked the reason for cancellation of the transfer of the Bhagalpur superintendent of police, Mr S. K. Dwivedy, Mr Singh said: “The orig* inal order was wrongly worded. It was not a transfer order, but the posting of an additional superintendent there. It was misconstrued. He, however, declined to comment on whether law and order had become difficult to maintain because of fre quent transfer and posting of IAS and IPS officers.Asked why the Centre had assessed the deteriorating situation late, the home minister said: “The Prime' Minister decided .to visit Bhagalpur after coming to know that the administration, and thereby the law and order, had totally collapsed.He lashed out at the Bharatiya Janata Party, the Vishwa Hindu Par-ishad and the Janata Dal for the communal disturbances and said the government was willing to talk to the opposition parties to convince them of the danger posed by communal organisations to the security and integrity of the country.Reports said 35 people admitted to the Jawahar Medical College and hospital during the last four days died. In addition, to this 18 bodies were counted in the post mortem room of the hospital, while one body each was recovered from the Ghogha and Isakhchak localities. The peon of Sundarvati Mahila College was also found dead with injuries.Shoot-at-sight orders were issued this morning when six army columns conducted a flag march in the town. The idefinite curfew, which was imposed on October 24, became actually operative from today following the flag march.Though incidents of violence were not reported till this evening, cases of looting were reported from different parts of the town.The administration opened a relief camp for the riot victims on the Kotwali police station campus. About 150 people had entered the camp by this evening.A Bhagalpur report said a mob massacred six members of a family in Sakhichand Ghat lane yesterday. A woman was burnt alive in the same locality. Shortage of vehicles had hampered relief and rescue operations, the report added.A Munger report said communal violence had spread to rural areas. Two people were killed in Bariarpur locality, about 15 km from here on Wednesday night. Four people were dragged out of a train and lynched earlier. One person was killed at the Bariarpur railway station.Tension continued in the Rahamganj locality following a group clash yesterday which left five people, including three policemen, injured.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿No day curfew in Indore todayThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jun 9, 1969; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9No day curfew in Indore todayINDORE; June 8:	Riot torn Indore city remained	curfew-boundexcept for five hours relaxation — from 2 p.m. to 7 p.m.'— today aftei a peaceful dav vesterdav.The curfew clamped last night was extended as the authorities “apprehended” possible trouble today. But no untoward incident was reported from any part of the city.The district magistrate. Mr. P. K. Lahiri, announced here tonight that there would be no day curfew tomorrow at 7 p.m.He said as some tension still persisted a dusk-to-dawn curfew would be reimposed at 1900 hours tomorrow as a precautionary measure.Mr. Lahiri said two relief camps had been opened to provide shelter to about 37 families rendered homeless in the disturbances:SHUKLA’S VISITThe Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister. Mr. S. C. Shukla, is arriving here on Tuesday to make an on the spot study of the situation.Meanwhile, Mp Ciangaram Tiwari, State Labour Minister, and the district magistrate described as- “incorrect and unfounded” a press statement by Mr. Hukam Chand Kachhwai, M.P., yesterday claiming that nearly 40 to 50 people had so far been killed in the current disturbances.The police took into custody over 60 people - bringing the total number of arrests till this morning to 1,093. —P.T.I.Tarapur fruition to end staggeringRAJKOT, June 8: Mr. S. T. Raja, chairman of the Gujarat Electricity Board, said here today that when the Tarapur atomic energy station reached its rated capacity in July, staggering of power would be abolished.The Dhuvaran second stage of 280 M.W. would be completed in March, 1971, the Ukai hydel power project of 300 M.W. in 1972 and another thermal station of 240 M W. with indigenous equipment by the end of 1973. The location of this station was, however, under scrutiny at present.These three projects, along with two gas turbines, would add 874 MW of power during the Fourth Plan in Gujarat.As atomic power was slightly cost* Iter than conventional power, the present electricity rates in the State were not likely to go down. The situation might change when Uka; hydel power became available.—P.T.I.Tear-gas used on Calcutta mobsCALCUTTA. June 8: The police burst two rounds of tear-gas shells to disperse two groups of people ' who clashed in North Calcutta tonight.According to the police,' ci ackers, soda-water bottles and brick-bats were freely used during- the clash_P.T.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Army out in U. P., 13 killedThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 12, 1988; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1LUCKNOW, October 11 (UNI & PTI).THE army was catted out and shoot^aWsight orders were issued tonight in Muzaffamagar as violence erupted amah in the town and neighbouring Khatauli, leaving 13 people dead and about 70 injured.An official spokesman said the Prime Minister, Mr Rajiv Gandhi, was briefed about the situation by the home minister, Mr Buta Singh.Mr Gandhi has directed the state government to deal firmly with the situation and take stem measures to contain the violence, die spokesman added:Meanwhile, with the death of one. more person in stabbing incidents in Aligarh yesterday, the toll rose to two, the home secretary, Mr S. K. Tripathi, said.He said no fresh incident had been reported in Aligarh since the imposition of curfew yesterday afternoon.Mr Tripathi said curfew was lifted in. Mussaffernagar at 11.30 a.m. yesterday following an improvement in the situation. However, curfew had to beclamped again at 1 p.m. today following renewed clashes.Police reinforcements have been rushed to Muzzaffamagar and Khatauli, he said.The home secretary said two people were reported to have been injured in i Khatauli town in clashes today. | Curfew, which was lifted in Khatauli at7.30	a.m. today, was reimposed at j12.30	p.m.In Aligarh city, heavy police patrolling continued, and situation was ‘'peaceful and under control, Mr Tripathi said.Aligarh (PTI): The situation in curfew-bound areas in Aligarh city was tense today following the recovery of a mutilated body near Mayur Chand Dharamshala this morning.New Delhi: (UNI): The proposed march of Muslim leaders from Faizabad to Ayodhya on October 14 assumed a new dimension today with the hardliners refusing to accept the authority of the Babri Masjid move-Govt, hasn’t rejected finance panel reportNEW DELHI, October 11 (UNI): THE government today denied a report appearing in a section of the press that finance ministry has refused to accept the ninth finance commission report.The government has already accepted the finance commission report and its views in this regard had been placed in Parliament on September 2, it was offically statedReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Madhya PradeshThe Times of India (1861-current); Apr 30, 1983; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of Indiapg. 13to the Durg municipal corporation, says our Raipur correspondent.Mr. Singh’s name was sponsored by the Durg DCC (I) chief, Mr. Vasudeo Rao Chandrakar, MLA, and was unanimously accepted.RajasthanDOCTORS STRIKE: Nearly 1,200 resident doctors all over Rajasthan went on an indefinite strike from Thursday, instead of from May 1, against the 11-point charter of demands “not considered yet by the state ministry of medicine and health,” reports PTI.MURDERER TO HANG: Mhar Chand, whose mercy petition was rejected by the President recently, will be hanged at central jail in Jaipur on Tuesday, says PTI. .Mhar Chand murdered his brother, his wife and their three teenage children.Tamil NaduTENSION IN ERUMADU: Fifty seven people were arrested and prohibitory orders under section 144 promulgated on Thursday in Erumadu, about ICO km from Udhagamandalam in Gudalur taluk in the Nilgiris district of Tamil Nadu following the insistence of members of one community that the movemetns of Gnana Ratham, the mobile unit of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad, be unrestricted, says UNI.Mr. S. Ramani, superintendent oi police, the Nilgiris, j said the police prevented the Ratham from being taken to a particular area anticipating a clash between members of two communities. Following this, mobs blockaded traffic at Cherangode and Kollapally. The blockade was lifted after the police intervened.He said most of the arrested were Hindus. A contingent of police had been rushed to the, area from Udhagamandalam to prevent any untoward incident, he added.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.Madhya PradeshUSING SURPLUS MANPOWER:The BHEL unit in Bhopal has a urplus staff of 5,000 and it proposes o undertake an expansion programme0	use this manpower. The unit has1	total strength of 19,000, our staff orrespondent from Bhopal states. _The executive director of the unit, dr. S. P. Singh, told newsmen that he government had given letters of ntent to the unit for manufacturing rolley buses, battery-powered vehicles ,nd industrial boilers.SUCCHA AS POLL HOPEFUL: dr. Succha Singh, one,of the accus-d in the tnurder of the Nirankari hief in Delhi but who was -subse-luently acquitted along with the other ccused,- is among the 40 Congress II) candidates contesting the elections
﻿SEVEN KILLED IN DISTURBANCES AROUND CACHAR: POLICE OPEN FIRE ON ...The Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jun 20, 1961; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 1TROOPS POSTED IN AFFECTED AREAS“The Times of India” News ServiceSHILLONG, June 19.gEVEN people were killed in the disturbances that broke out today in and around Hailakandi town in Cachar District.The police opened fire twice on violent crowds engaged in arson and looting, Mr. A. N. Kidwai, Chief Secretary, announced here tonight.Troops have taken up positions in the disturbed areas. A procession of more than 10,000 people marched through Hai-lakandi in protest against the language agitation launched by the Cachar Sangram Parishad.The Parishad had been agitating for the recognition of Bengali as an additional official language of the State.The members of the procession, according to reports received here tonight, later turned violent and indulged in arson and looting. Most of the houses attacked by the members of the procession belonged to Bengali refugees.The police had to resort to firing to prevent large-scale arson.Curfew has been promulgated in Hailakandi from 6 p.m. to 6 a.m. for one week. An order under Section 144 has also been promulgated.HOUSES SET ON FIRE 1P.T.I. adds: A Silchar report stated that a riotous mob, armed with lethal weapons and shouting slogans opposing the language movement, marched into the town from outlying areas and started looting	and setting fire tohouses indiscriminately. Many people were assaulted	and injured by therioters.On receipt ot inlormation at Silchar, the Deputy Commissioner, Mr. It. K. Srivastava, accompanied by the Superintendent of Police, Mr. Atul Dutta, and other top civil and military offi? cials rushed, to the spot with the police force and fire-brigade men.Arson and looting were also reported from Monacherra, ten miles from Hailakandi, latest reports received at Silchar at eight tonight stated taht normalcy had been restored at Hailakandi with the arrival of police reinforcements from Cilchar.Giving an account of the incidents in Hailakandi, a press note issued by the Assam Government from Shillong said that the “Government have with regret received report about a number of serious incidents this afternoon in and around Hailakandi.”A number of big anti-Sangram Parishad people from four directions converged and spread over the town about noon. The procession, who were estimated to be over 10,000 strong, damaged property whileroaming about m the town. Some shops were also looted. .The I.G.P, and S.P. of the district arrived at Hailakandi about this time.The Deputy Commissioner ot the district rushed to Hailakandi on receipt of the news. By pursuasion first, and later on by use of tear-gas near the railway station, attempts were made to get the crowd out of the town, About 4 p.m. the crowd became violent and defiant. After repeated warnings the crowd failed to disperse and began setting fire to houses at the outskirts of the town, whereafter firing had to be resorted to, to prevent large-scale arson in two places.The press note added: “Preliminary reports indicated that consequent on the firing one person died on the spot and another person succumbed to injuries later and the crowd retreated with some injured persons. Three bodies with bullet injuries were recovered from surrounding villages later, together with five others who had sustained bullet injuries.“In addition to these, two other bodies having injuries caused by sharp weapons and some persons having injuries caused by sharp and blunt weapons have been recovered.The cause of the last-mentioned casualties from sharp and blunt weapons_ is now known, and further information is being awaited.” CURFEW IMPOSEDThe press note said, “Some further cases of arson at Algapur and Monacherra are reported.Curfew for a week from 6 p.m. to 6 a.m. has been clamped down at Hailakandi town and the area within one mile of the town.Section 144 has also been promulgated throughout the Sub-Division.“The police and military forces in the Sub-Division, with magistrates, have taken up positions in areas of the Sub-Division where trouble is apprehended.“Hie authorities are taking all precautionary measures possible and the Disturbed Areas Act has been extended to the Hailakandi Sub-Division.”—P.T.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿MPs demand probe into Baraut firingThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 27, 1978; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 18MPs demand probe into Baraut firingNEW DELHI, September ^6 (PTI):Mt. Saeed Murtaza and Mr. Rasheed Masood, both Janata MPs, have de-: manded a judicial inquiry into the alleged firing incident at Baraut between traders and students in which! three students were reported to have been killed.Addressing a press conference here yesterday they said the administrative apathy was the main reason for the situation getting out of control, leading to the death of innocent students.They regretted that persons responsible for the incident had not so far been brought to book.Mr. Rasheed Masood, MP from Saharanpur, said not one minister from UP had v;sited the troubled spot till now.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Six killed in Godhra riotsThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 30, 1980; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1BARODA, October 29 (UNI).AT least six persons were killed . today in the day-long clashes ■ between two ‘communities in Godhra. 80 km. from here.Official ' sources in Godhra told UNI on telephone that one person was killed in. police firing, while the other five died of burns.Some 30 persons have been admitted to ; ‘hospital with injuries, many of them with burn injuries.A 24-hour curfew has been clamped on the entire town. The sources said'that no incident of arson had been reported after 6 p.m. today., The Gujarat inspector-general of police, Mr. N. H. Sethna, and . the deputy inspector-general of police (Baroda range), Mr, Y, B; Jhala, were personally supervising police operations in die riot-hit town. / The sources said that there were enough police reinforcements in Godhra to meet any eventuality.Mr. Jhala said that the police had to' open fire to quell rioting mobs.Mr. Jhala said many persons sustained burn injuries when they tried to put out tlie fire in their shops. Reports reaching here said that the mobs','also tried to set fire to some railway property. Fire engines frcm Baroda were ' requisitioned to assist the Godhra fire brigade.Senior ‘-police officials here said adequate precautions had been taken to ensure that the trouble did not spread to other areas.Railway officials said the movement of goods traffic had been affected slightly because engine drivers staying in Godhra could not report for duty, but passenger services re-maned unaffected, jOur Correspondent adds from Godhra:	The condition of two ofthe injured was said to be precarious.The trouble started in the Jahurpura and Station Road areas after a petty quarrel between two shopkeepers. Violence flared up and scores of shops and houses were set ablaze by mobs who indulged in arson and looting. f	'The collector, Mr. A. K. Pradhan, who was camping at Devgad Baria, rushed to the town on hearing about the clashes and the police summoned the help of two SRP battalions. More SRP units from Baroda .were said to be on t.heir way. .	1Despite curfew, mobs in several parts of the. town indulged* in plundering shops. The police were conspicuous by their absence in many troubled areas, Tbev entire telephone system in the town was dead following the outbreak of violence.Gandhinagar (UNI): The Gujarat* government cn ' Wednesday empowered the district magistrates of the state to detain persons under the national security ordinance, 1980, in view of , rioting in Godhra.A government spokesman said battalions of the Border Security Force and the state reserve police had been ruthed to Godhra. Fire engines from Ahmedabad had also been sent there.According to information reaching here, the police fired 12 rounds at the unruly crowd in Godhra.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿12 Injured In Delhi Clash: PROTEST AGAINST JAMMU ARREST The Times of India News SThe Times of India (J86J-current); May 13, 1953; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 112 Injured In Delhi ClashPROTEST AGAINST JAMMU ARREST“The Times of India” News ServiceNEW DELHI, May 12. Twelve persons, including four constables, were injured today in a clash between the police and pro-Jammu Praja Parishad demonstrators, observing “protest day” against the arrest of Dr. Svama Prasad Mookerjee, the Jan Sangli leader, in Jammu yesterday.The police took into custody 89 persons, including 14 women, after nearly an hour's scuffle, with the demonstrators.The clash followed a public meeting in the city at which, Mr. V. P. Joshi, General Secretary of the Delhi State Jan Sangh, announced his decision to lead a procession to protest against the arrest of Dr. Mookerjee.Mr. Joshi was joined by workers of the Jan Sangh, the Hindu Mahasabha and the Ram Rajya Parishad, whom the police cordoned off.A lathi charge followed the demonstrators’ attempts to break through the cordon. As women volunteers threw a cordon round Mr. Joshi, women constables had to be called to disperse them. Thereafter, Mr. Joshi was bodily lifted by two constables and carried to the police van, .A meeting held earlier was addressed by Mr. N. C. Chatter-jee, M.P., President of the All-India Hindu Mahasabha, Mr. V. G. Deshpande, M.P., General Secretary, All-India Hindu Mahasabha, Mr. Nana Lai Shastry, M.P., (Ram Rajya Parishad) and Mr. V. P. Joshi.The meeting passed a resolution criticising the Kashmir Government for arresting Dr. Mookerjee.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Two more die in Baroda riotsThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jul 3, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1The Times of India News ServiceBARODA, July 2./TWO more persons were . 1 stabbed to death during the two-hour curfew relaxation here this morning as rioting continued raising the toll in the week’s violence in the city to seven.Three people were stabbed at Wadi, the area accounting for most instances of communal violence in the city in recent years. One of them died in a hospital soon afterwards.Two people were attacked with sharp weapons, one of them fatally, at Gotri village on the city outskirts early ' today. Gotri was outside the curfew-bound areas.The authorities decided against retaxing curfew in the evening in all localities under the Nehruwadi and city police stations. Curfew was imposed on two-thirds of the city.However, the day passed off peacefully in areas under the Raopura and Karelibaug police stations, where the ■ curfew relaxation was for 10 hours.The deputy mayor and BJP leader, Mr Nalin Bhatt, and five others, who were arrested yesterday in connection with violence, were produced before the chief judicial magistrate today. They were detained under the provisions of the Anti-Terrorist Act and those in the Indian Penal Code dealing with arson, assault and so on. The magistrate scheduled the next hearing for July 7.The six people remanded to judicial custody included Mr Hiralal Barot, head constable of Wadi police station.1 PT1 adds: The chief minister. Mi Amarsinh Chaudhary, who was scheduled to visit Baroda today, cancelled 1 his visit at the last minute.1 In a telegram to the Prime.Minister, the city mayor, Mr Jashpal Singh, has • demanded immediate action against 1 Mr Chaiidhary’s government for its ' “failure” to curb the violence.'The Akhil Navgujarat Rachna Samiti leaders, in a statement, criticised the arrests and the government for its failure in checking violence.Rajkot (UNI): Tension prevailed in Sultanpur and surrounding villages of Gondal taluka in this district where four people were shot down by a rival group yesterday.According to the latest police reports, all the assailants, numbering about 15, were untraceable.Some of the village elders were going to Rajkot to lodge a police complaint when their vehicle was intercepted by a truck carrying the assailants.The assailants fired at the jeep instantly killing four people.On hearing about the incident, a group of villagers assembled and tried to attack the houses of the accused. However, a police party present at the spot fired a few rounds in the air and dispersed the group.RATHYATRA PEACEFUL(TOINS from Lucknow): The rathyatra* was taken out peacefully in Meerut today. Nearly 50,000 people participated in the procession through, a regulated route which was finalised in consultation with citizens of the Hindu and Muslim communities.Adequate police bandohast was made to ensure peace at all cost and nothing untoward was reported, according to official reports here.While the rathyatra was peaceful, there was violence elsewhere inMeerut. With the death of one person, who succumbed to a head injury caused by a blunt weapon in the Transport Nagar police area, the toll in the renewed violence yesterday rose to three. Another person sustained stab injuries at Mohanpur,Curfew in large areas affected by riots in May continues during the night hours.	.	.The army staged a flag march in some parts of the city in view of the tension.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿3 killed in firing on Srinagar mobThe Times of India (J86J-current); Aug 27, 1988; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 13 killed in firing on Srinagar mobSRINAGAR, August 26 (UNI-PTI).THREE people were killed and more than 30 injured, some of them seriously, when the police opened fire and Used teargas at Saraf Racial and Naid Kadal in the downtown area today.' The police opened fire when a mob . leaving the nearby Jama Masjid after Friday prayers reportedly turned viol’ ent and stoned the police.' The Awami action committee chief, Mr Mirwaiz Moulvi Farooq, had also t addressed the gathering in the mosque, i	Earlier, the police burst teargas shells1 and fired in the air near the mosque to disperse the people.I The chief minister, Dr Farooq j Abdullah, today warned that his gov. emment would take the “most stringent measures” against “miscreants and their leaders” who had ’ indulged in and incited acts of violence : in the state during the last ten days.1	In his concluding address to the statei legislative council, Dr Abdullah said r these measures would include “large-i scale arrests.”“They (the culprits) would have to pay heavily for the mischief they have ‘ indulged in”, the chief minister told the council, which adjourned sine die 1 today.[ Responding to a point raised earlier ; by Maulvi Iftikhar Hussain Ansari ' (Cong), who played an influential role in getting, the Ashoora” procession ■ abandoned on Wednesday, the chief c minister said victims of the wandelism i would be compensated soon.a	•Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿9 die in fresh Aligarh riotsThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 9, 1980; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1LUCKNOW, September 8<PTI).NINE people were killed and 18 injured in incidents of brickbat-throwing, stabbing and firing in Aligarh this morning.Curfew was indefinitely reimposed in the whole of Aligarh town barring the. Civil Lines area and heavy reinforcements of police forces,' including the- B&F were rushed there.An official spokesman told newsmen here that the‘trouble started around 1100 hours in Aligarh—the localities of Madar Gate, Phoolchowi and Barairi jGate—with groups of people freely exchanging	brickbats antifire. ■	. ■'	.Four houses, and shops were sei on fire during the	incidents, thespokesman added.The casualities were the result ol clashes between groups of people, the spokesman said, denying , that there was any police firing in Aligarh today, The situation had been showing con-tinuous improvement in the town during the past several days and the day curfew was totally lifted earlier.-Today’s incidents, however, gave aserious setback to the normalisation process and the authorities have rushed heavy reinforcement of forces.In Moradabad, there- was a loud explosion last night and fire broke put /in a . shop though the cause of these incidents and the extent of damage has not been confirmed.The trouble in Aligarh started over the closing . of shops as a protest against the arrest of the two local journalists last night.There were repeated alternations between two groups followed-by cstabrbing -cases* ^In Moradabad, the authorities are still vigorously searching for three persons missing, for about, a week now and another one in Sambhal township —' a tehsil of Moradabad district. ,■ Meanwhile, a strict vigil is being maintained by the authorities in other disturbed towns of Bareilly, Allahabad. Chandausi and Amorha where no incident has been reported in the last three days.Illicit arms and lethal weapons continued to be confiscated by the police; till last night in various towns in the state,7 including - (Moradabad, Bareilly and Allahabad.While confiscation operation continued in the state heaidquarters, at least four mini-cannons, about 1,000 guns and pistols /and a considerable quantity of ammunition and over 100 lethal weapons have so far been recove red. by the police.	*Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Stray incidents in PuneThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); May 7, 1988; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 3Stray incidentsinPuneThe Times of India News ServicePUNE, May 6: The police havearrested 144 persons for 93 crimes committed during the six days of communal tension here. During the same period 294 persons have been taken into preventive custody.Last night, some unidentified persons stoned a Ganapati idol on Mahatma Gandhi Road in the Cantonment area. The idol was damaged and tube lights were broken.In the same area some 30 persons hurled stones at a policeman on duty. None has been arrested in the two incidents.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Ayodhya incidents spark Bangla riotsZAGLUL A CHOWDHURY The Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Nov 1, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 1Ayodhya incidents spark Bangla riotsBy ZAGLUL A. CHOWDHURY The Times of India News ServiceDHAKA, October 31:Bangladesh’s second biggest city,Chittagong, was placed under indefinite curfew since*early morning today following violence between twommmiinities.Hindu temples came under attack by the fundamentalist Muslims as a sequel to the incidents in neighbouring India, heightened by reports that fundamentalist Hindus had stormed the Babri Masjid in Ayodhya yesterday.Fundamentalist forces attacked some Hindu temples apiidst reports of arson and looting in this city of two-and-a-half million, about 200 miles from here. The trouble began, last evening and took a turn for the worse in the night and the authorities moved quickly to quell the violence.Para-military personnel and the police took positions in all sensitive areas in the port city, which has sizeable minority population. More than ten per cent of Bangaladesh’s 120 million people are Hindus. “The situation is tense but under control”, officials said in Chittagong.The Islamic fundamentalist Jamaat-e-Islami and its student wing today brought out processions in the capital protesting the “communal incidents” in India.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿LATE NEWSThe Times of India (J86J-current); Nov 19, 1955; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 3NEW YORK COTTON Today’s Closing	34.16Difference	+10] KILLED, 3 HURT IN CLASHCALCUTTA, November IS: One person was killed and two others wore injured as a result of gun shots, w'liile three others were injured by lathi blows when a clash took place in the village of Pipuldah in Harua. police station in 24-Parganas yesterday, according to a message received in Calcutta. -P.P.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Police firing over cricket clashesA Staff ReporterThe Times of India (J86J-current); Nov 6, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Police firing over cricket dashesBy A SttiR KtlwterBOMB AY.Ndv.S: Some 20 people were inured in mob clashes near Reay Road station andat Jogeshwari (east) indasheswhik the Indian cricket team was batting during its match with Engmtoday. The police fired four rounds in the air to quell the riotous snobs.-	■ r .'kerosene balls were used.Tenements in the affected areas were strewn with broken glass and furniture and some of the dwelling had beenContinued on page 3Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.Ahmedabad clashesover cricket defeatContinued from Pago 1scorched by the kerosene torches.' A senior police official said some 17 persons had been iqjured in the riot, including a constable who was hit by an acid bulb. They were taken to the JJ. Hospital where all but one were treated and allowed to go. «Police officials at the spot said Tank Bunder Road was a sensitive area and five policemen were always on duty there. When trouble broke out today, they fired four rounds and called for reinforcements, the officials added. Sizable number of policemen have been posted at Reay Road, Nagpada and Dongirarea^ to avert further trouble. • >Stone-throwing alsotook place at Harijan Nagar in Jogethwari east in the afternoon renilting in injuries to one person.TOINS adds from Ahmedabad: At least 14 people were injured in group clashes in two different localities of the city this evening following the defeat of India.Two of the injured were hurt in stabbing incidents. .The group dashes and heavy stonethrowing started soon after some miscreants startedbursfing firecrackers in communally sensitive areas of Bapunagar and Shahpur.The situation took a turn for the worse in Bapunagar, where a mob also set fire to a scooter. A journalist of a prominent local newspaper, who had gone to Bapunagar to cover the outbreak of violence, was gheraoed and injured in the melee.Senior police officers, including the commissioner of police, Mr S. N. Sinha rushed to Bapunagar and brought the situation under control. People complained to Mr Sinha that four SRP jawans who were posted in the area (fid not bother to bring the situation under control.	•In another inddent in the Shahpur area, six people were injured in stonethrowing. Four pan stalls were damaged.Stone-throwing was also reported from the Teen Darwaja area and from the Haveli police station area However, the Id-e-Milad procession passed peacefully from these areas. In view of violent inridents in different parts of the rity, the police commissioner has intensified the police patrolling in sensitive areas.In Nadiad town, the police fired two rounds to disperse two groups indulging in stone-throwing after die match was over.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿NANDI HILL AS RESTING-PLACEThe Times of India (J86J-current); Feb 24, 1961; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 6NANDI HILL AS RESTING-PLACEyueen Pleased“The Times o! India” News Servic<BANGALORE, February 23: “Th< selection of Nandi Hill for our resi was exoellent,” Queen Elizabeth, tolc the Mysore Chief Minister, Mr. B. D Jatti, before she and fee Duke oi Edinburgh left for Bombay today.The .Royal couple drove straight from the Nandi Hill, 37 miles front here, to the Hindustan airport. Largt crowds lined up along the route tt cheer them.At the airport the Queen and th<Duke were given many presents bj the Ministers and leading citizens whc had come to see them off. The gift! included garlands of silk yarn, stoles of intricate designs, an ivory-sandal wood baton and a pieoe of white khadi. They also received specially selected strings of cardamom for theii children..	.	'The Governor, Mr. Jayachamaraja Wadiar, the Chief Minister, and. his Cabinet colleagues and Government officials were among those who were present at the airbort to wish the Royal couple. good-bye. VVisit To VaticanLONDON, February 23:	QueerElizabeth and the Duke of Edin burgh will be received in audience b’ the Pope in Rome on May 5, it wa: announced from Buckingham Palaci tonight.The audience will take place a the end of a State Visit to Italy whicl the Queen and Prince Philip will be gin on May 2.—Reuter.lathi-chargI omVIOLENT CROWD 16 Hurt In Kerala“The Times of India’1 News ServiceTRIVANDRUM, February 23: Th police made a lathi-charge today ot a violent crowd to1 end a communa clash at Manathala in Chawgha Taluka, in Trichur District.Sixteen persons, including 10 police men, were injured by stones ferowi in the clash, according to official sour ces. •The police intervened when member! of one community stoned a religion! procession organised by another com munity as it passed in front of £ place of worship.Official sources claimed tonight tha peace had been restored in the disturbed areas soon after the police action.	.M. Pallam Raju“The limes of India” News ServiceHYDERABAD, February 23: Mr, Pallam Raju, the Andhra Pradesh Mi-mster for Forests. Fisheries and Animal Husbandry, is relinquishing his office from March 1, 1961, it is learnt.Mr. Raju, who was elected President of the Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee unanimously on December 4 last, would be resigning from the Cabinet because, under the new Congress constitution, office-bearers of the organisational wing cannot simultaneously hold Government posts in the legislative wing.Meanwhile, significance is attached to a meeting tomorrow between the Prime Minister, Mr. Nehru, and the Andhra Pradesh Public Works Minister, Mr. A. S. Raju, on the political situation in the State. Mr. Raju left tonight by air for New Delhi.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Faizabad toll 2, Jamshedpur back to normalThe Times of India (J86J-current); Oct 24, 1988; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1Faizabad toll 2, Jamshedpur back to normalLUCKNOW. October 23 (UNI & PTI).f	person uieu oi duiici m-wjuries in Haiderganj this morning, raising the toll to two, in the curfew-round Faizabad district.	'Anotner person was injured py sharp ibjects in a scuffle in Faizabad. So far 139 people have been arrested since the listurbances erupted in the district on 'riday night.The situation in Aligarh, Khatauli ind Muzaffamagar, where curfew was elaxed, was peaceful, according to eports reaching the state headquarters lere.In the capital the Indian Muslim fouth conference today charged the Jabri Masjid action committee with nciting Friday’s communal violence at 7aizabad.Meanwhile, with normalcy fast re-uming to J&mshedpur, the curfew, mposed on October 20, after 16 people vere killed into stampede withdrawn oday from Bishtupur area while it was elaxed for 12 hours and 17 hours in dango and Sakchi areas respectively, tccording to police sources.	'The Jharkhand Mukti Morcha JMM) has given a call for a “Sing-ibhum bandh” on Octobe 28 in protest igainst the police lathi-charge during hestmpede. ;In Ranchi the Bhartiya Janata Party eader, Mr Samresh Singh, MLA, today ategorically accused the Jamshedpur idministretion for triggering the tampede.Mr Singh alleged that the deputy mlice superintendent (traffic), amshedpur, was responsible for the ragedy as he allowed a Maruti car to nove on the bridge in spite of the passive turnout <The situation in curfew-bound Dhar >wp, 60 km from Indore, remained eacefid today and there was no un-jward incident reported during theire&hour curfew relaxation period.The curfew was clamped on the tight of October 20-21 folowing police iring, in which One person was killed nd four others seriously injured, after i clash between Duiga puja pro-essionists and the police.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Leader of Gujarat samiti heldThe Times of India (1861-current); Jun 12, 1974; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1‘The Times of India’’ News ServiceAHMEDABA.D. June’ I i. /	;!|V|R. Umakant Mankad. secretary-Lfl of the Nav Nirman Yuvak l. samiti. was arrested by the City oolice today.	'-.'	• •	.' Mr. 'Mankad.- in a' public speech on Sundav. was'alleged to have asked The students to attack The shops which. , charged high prices, with “trishuls” * and: adopt “naxalite” ..tactics in. .their; ( fight against the profiteers.	!.	;GOVERNOR “WARNED”	’■ He was also reported to.’.have said .that the state governor; Mr. K. K. ; yiswanathan,. would ■ be’ -“taught a lesson” if he. returned from his recent • . trip to ’-Delhi without the Narmada ( award in GujariU's favour. :	'•vA case for inciting the people had 1 been registered against Mr. Mankad, who had played a prominent role in ( the recent; agitation for the- resigna-tiori of.1 the- Chimahbhai Patel minis- 'j try and the dissolution of the icgisla- j live assembly. • '•',.-	./ ■	]The police also arrested five other ( student' leaders near: the Sardaf.baug • area • for violating . the prohibitory ■ orders now' in force in the city! The-student -leaders look.- out.; a moreba to protest against the high prices.Four students held in SrinagarSRINAGAR, June 11: .Four stu-d^jits -from the S. P. College were ' arrested here today on a charge of indulging hr rowdyismr: land .unruly behaviour, y'. .- -	.	:■The arrests were made oil the second day of . th estrike by- studen ts to press their demand for cancellation ■of;., the transfer - orders'-- of the college principal. / ' |	^ :	1.-:/	■ ' 'A police spokesman said 16 students were arrested yesterday . when some of them fried to- rnandandle'’ the newly-appointed- principal while on a round . of the college. . The. I police. also used , lathis to chase aw.ay .the/-, agitating students.—P.T.I. .	: .	.' firing: ;)Two persons were killed, and 20 persons . were injured when rhe police opened fire to. quell a riotous mob at Hingoli in Parbhani district of Maharashtra- on Monday night, according to reports reaching The police headquarters in; Bombay- on Tuesday. .Curfew, has been imposed in Hingoli:	'	• yThe police said that a 3,000-strong procession, taken put by the Hingoli municipal, council to; celebrate the tri-centenary. ‘ of the coronation of Shivajk . was stoned , as it I passed by a place of worship. .This .led to riots/ and the police opened fire. I	■One person was killed. instantly anc another died ', in - hosiutal.—.O.N.I.-Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Communal riots claim 12 moreThe Times of India (1861-current); Dec 17, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1NEW DELHI* Dec. 16.(PTI & UNI) HE police-opened fire in , Agra and Ahmedabad as Violence continued to rock Vttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Hyderabad taking a toll of 12 todav..Of the 12 deaths, 11 were reported from U.P. with Agra bearing the brunt with a toll of nine, including six in police firing-	,t A woman was knifed to death in Kushaiguda locality of Hyderabad even as the situation remained peaceful in the old city with curfew being relaxed for a couple of hours. No major incident was reported in the pity except for some stray cases of Stabbing.! The police fired 13 rounds and 40 teargas shells in Ahmedabad to disperse violent mobs resulting in injuries to three. One person was also injured in an incident of stone-throwing. Curfew was relaxed up to five hours in several localities of the city.The week-long violence in Gujarat claimed 32 lives, 29 in Ahmedabadalone. Two deaths were reported from Baroda and one from Palanpur in Banaskantha district.However, an official spokesman said tonight 26 persons lost their lives in Ahmedabad so far, 21 in police firing, and 150 of the 200 injured had been hospitalised.Two shops were set on fire by a mob in the Maninagar area. About 50 petrol bombs and some lethal weapons were seized and 56 antisocial elements arrested during a combing operation in Bapunagar.Six columns of army and 30 companies of BSF and SRP personnel were deployed in the worst hit areas of the city. Nearly 1,000 people were detained in the past one week in the city.The Agra city additional district magistrate, Mr Kuldip Seth, said the police opened fire on clashing groups belonging to two communities in Mantola, Roshan Mohalla and Naiki Mandi localities of the city this morning killing six. Mr Seth said two unidentified bodies were recovered from the Dholi Khar area.Twenty cases of arson had been reported from the Lohamadi and Hariparbat police station areas. Security in the city has been beefed upwith two companies of the Central Industrial Security Force being deployed. More companies of the PAC were expected in the city.Army was assisting the civil authorities in conducting search operations and in maintaining law and order.Mr Seth said 365 people had been arrested so far. Indefinite curfew has been extended to two more police station areas of the city.With further improvement in the situation in Meerut, Aligarh, Varanasi and Kanpur, curfew was relaxed in several areas in a phase manner.The death toll in Kanpur rose to 21 today with the report of the deaths of a police constable and another person, who succumbed to injuries in hospital.Curfew was relaxed there in the areas under the Chamanganj and Beconganj police stations during which no untoward incident occurred.However, a few stray incidents were reported from the city though an official spokesman claimed the situation there was “peaceful.”Curfew in Varanasi was relaxed in all the trouble-hit areas while it was relaxed for three hours in Civil Lines and at Kwarsi in Aligarh.In Meerut, curfew was relaxed in the seven police stations areas for eight hours from 9 a.m. The relaxation passed pff peacefully in all these places, the spokesman said.Curfew was not relaxed in the Jahangirpur and Khuija areas of Bulandhsahr district though no untoward incident was reported from these places.The toll from yesterday’s incidents in Khuija has risen to three and the number of the injured to six. Sixty nine persons have been arrested in connection with the violence in Khurja.The police have intensified patrol-, ling and house searches were continuing in the township.Meanwhile, the station-in-charge: of the Ganj Dundwara police station' in Etah district has been placed under suspension with immediate effect on charges of dereliction of duty, the spokesman added.Ganj Dundwara had witnessed violent incidents earlier this month.Ahmedabad: The police fired 13 rounds and 40 teaigas shells to disperse stone-pelting mobs in curfew-free areas of Odhav and Bapunagar in eastern parts of the city injuring three more persons, even as violence was(Continued on page 7)Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.Riots claim 12more lives(Continued from Page 1)reported to have subsided in the curfew-bound walled city.One person was also injured in the stone-throwing.No other untoward incident was reported from the walled city areas since last night.Curfew was relaxed for five houre from 9 a.m. in Saraspur Chowki of the Shaher Kotda police station area and Karanja, Dariapur and Bhulabhai Chowki areas under the Kagdapith police station areas.In Shahpur, Kalupur and Behram-pura Chowki of the Kagdapith pdlicestation, it was relaxed between 3.30 p.m. and 5.30 p.m.The week-long violence in Gujarat claimed 32 lives, 29 in Ahmedabad alone. Two deaths were reported from Baroda and one from Palanpur in Banaskantha district.Baroda: The police fired one round to disperse three*persons who were attempting to set fire to a shop in Anjana village of Tantrapur in Pan-chmahal district yesterday.The situation in Baroda city was steadily improving with no incidents being reported since yesterday and indefinite curfew, reimposed on the city, Wadi and Panigate police station areas since Friday,-was relaxed for 12 hours from 7 a.nu' However, night curfew would continue as a precautionary measure.Hyderabad: One woman was stabbed to death by scooter-borne assailants in suburban Kushaiguda this afternoon, even as the situation remained peaceful in the old city where curfew was relaxed for a couple of hours this morning, the commissioner of police, Mr M.V. Bhaskar Rao, said.Mr Rao said that barring stray incidents of stabbing in the Hussaini Alam and Mangalhat police station limits and at the posh Banjara Hills area, no major incidents were reported.	■Meanwhile, the police have decided to ban pillion-riding in the entire twin cities, in view of the increasing attacks by two-wheeler-borne assailants during the past few days, the commissioner said.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Politics behind AP riotsK VIKRAM RAO The Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Apr 3, 1985; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 9By K. VIKRAM RAOThe Times of India News Service HYDERABAD.I30OTICAI1 tensions tend to JL explode into communal riots in Hyderabad where the two major communities lived in harmony for over two centuries—until a few years ago when religious zealous zealots began to demonstrate their piety in the streets.	_The communal riots that plunged the city of the Charminar into distress thrice in the past seven months indisputably were of political origin. This is not to deny the deep-rooted mistrust that exists between the two communities which may be traced to the Razakar movement towards the end of the Nizam rule. But politicians are known to inflame the latent communal prejudices whenever it suits their purpose and the ferocity of the riots have been increasing with each recurrence.Take for example the latest riots which broke out on March 22. It all started with the death of an illicit liquor dealer in the excise office 1 here. The victim was reported to have been taken there and beaten by excise officials and hirelings ot liquor contractors. His death led to trouble in the Dhoolpet area and curfew was ' imposed. In the police almanac of 1 Hyderabad, curfew has become as common as a prohibitory order under the Cr. P.C.The details of this incident, which have surfaced now, make sad reading. The Lodhi Rajput community has in-1 habited Dhoolpet for decades. They keep swords, claiming to be Kshatri-yas. Most of them trade in illicit liquor, though many of its youths now go for modem education and urban employment. One of the illicit liquor dons. Amar Singh, had become an eyesore for the liquor contractorswho found their business dwindling because of his trade which is more popular among the lower classes. Their hirelings, along with the ex-1 else officials raided the house of i Amar Singh’s son in the Sitaphal-■	mandi area in Secunderabad. While his family members were allegedly■	assaulted, Amar Singh was taken to i the excise department office fromwhere he was rushed (reportedlydead) to the Osmania General Hospi* tal.The story should have ended here.But as tension mounted in the Dhoolpet area, the restive Lodhis Wielding arms, cried revenge. Just at that time a “mad man” • (to quote the city police) threw stones at a “ba-raat” party (marriage procession). There were some altercations and skirmishes. The events got mixed up and a purely law-and-order problem turned into a communal clash. The Lodhis live in an area adjoining a Muslim locality.Some allege that the city police, to divert the Lodhis’ wrath against the excise officials, engineered the communal violence. The logic of this argument is that the death of AmarSingh could have triggered violent demonstrations against the excise outfit, creating embarrassment for the newly elected chief minister. In a communal clash the government and its officials have no direct involvement, except in the efforts to contain it. So the incident changed its contours and the old city saw yet another communal flare-up.Only a fortnight ago, when polling ended for the state assembly, there was trouble and curfew was imposed in old Hyderabad. The origin of the trouble was again political. The contestants for the Chandrayanagutta assembly seat were nominees of the Muslim Majlis and the Congress besides a Telugu Desam-supported independent. In some polling booths more votes were found than the number of ballot papers issued and many of them did not have the polling officers’ signatures. That was the reason for the election commission to order a repoll.The Muslim Majlis candidate andthe TD-supported independent fought the election keenly, but communal passions overtook the political battle.The worst riot in the recent past was the one which rocked the city on September 9. It was the day of immersion of Ganapati idols in the Hussain Sagar tank	when the cityand state were already rocked by a violent agitation over the dismissal of the NTR ministry by governor Ram Lad and installation in its place of the “usurper” Bhaskara Rao government. Tension was already high, butthe cause was purely political.On the fateful day of September 9, & huge Ganapati idol and those/ of many other gods of the Hindu pantheon were taken in a long profession through the Muslim-inhabited Charminar area. Ironically many Arya Samajists, who do not believe in idol worship, were heading the procession.Predictably, a communal clash oc-cured. In the mindless violence that followed, shops owned by the minority community in the fashionable Abids area and Basheerbag were set ablaze. Several of these shops were marked with paint before the arsonists went into aetion systematically.A judicial inquiry is in progress, but there is an allegation that Mr. Bhaskara Rao, to divert the populaar wrath away from him, turned on communal passion.Many Hindus and Muslims of oldHyderabad have told this correspondent that they want peace and their normal life is affected because curfew immobilises them frequently. Poor daily workers like the rickshaw-pullers, small, shop-owners and vendors suffer the most under curfew. They are against riots.	.An old resident of Chandrayanagutta says the knives used in the riots now are also of a different type. They were never found in Hyderabad before. The Muslim Majlis alleges that they are brought from Nagpur (RSS headquarters) while BJP leaders say they are from Lucknow and Rampur (U.P.) But these knives kill Hyderabadis — both Hindus and Muslims.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Gonda clashes toll 10The Times of India (J86J-current); Oct 3, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 7Gonda clashes toll 10LUCKNOW, October 2 (PTI): Six more persons were killed in violent clashes in nearby villages of Colonal Ganj town yesterday, taking the death toll in the recent violence in Gonda district to ten, an official spokesman said here today.One person was killed in Nachli Village and four were killed in Pande Choura and Kuthia village, reports said.Indefinite curfew, which was clamped in the town after Sunday’s violence which claimed four lives, continued for the third day today.The deputy inspector general of police, Faizabad, is camping at Colonal Ganj and the CRPF, PAC and police have been deployed at strategic places.Clashes occurred when a religious procession was stoned, fired at by some members of another communi-: ty, the spokesman added.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Section 144 Imposed On Junagadh: 1 Killed In Clash, 2 ArrestedThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jul 13, 1963; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Section 144 Imposed On Junagadh1 Killed In Clash, 2 Arrested,;lhe limes of India'’ News ServiceJUNAGADH, July 12.DART of Junagadh observed a harial today in protest against an alleged attempt by two boys to commit criminal assault on a minor girl in the historic fort of Upparkot yesterday evening.Shops and commercial establishments belonging to one community remained closed and students also walked out of their classesI he two hoys aged 20 and 19, who were alleged lo have made (he attempt on a ' I.'-year-old girl belonging to a different community, were arrested today-It is said that they induced the girl lo accompany them to the fort. They look her then to Buddha Guha, a solitary place in the fort, it was stated. But two men got suspicious about the movements of these three and followed them unnoticed	,When they approached Buddha Guha, they saw one of the boys keeping a “watch’’ outride. I hey entered the cave and found, it was claimed, the other boy and the gill in it.ALLEGED INC1DKMIhe Jan Sangh !.Jd a public meeting tonight to protest against the alleged incident.I’.J.I. adds; One person was tatally stabbed and live others were injured, one of them seriously, in a clash between the two groups of people. The injured were admitted to hospitalA press note issued later at Ah tiled-abad said the District Magistrate of Junagadh promulgated an order under Section 144. Cr. ?.C„ in Junagadh city “lo prevent communal tension which developed suddenly as a result of a conflict over an incident between two classes of people.”	.Ihe ordet which will be in lotcc till duly 20 advised the public lo abstain from meeting in public places, carrying arms and lathis and shouting slogans.	.limelv preventive meaMiies had been taken to restore ordet,.the note addedA report from Rajkot said the divisional commissionei of Rajkot, Mi-Jamnadas Shah, and the deputy inspec-lor-gencral of police. VIi. Pawn. lelt lot Junagadh on receipt of information of the clash.A contingent o! special (reserved) police hut been sent to Junagadh to help maintain law and ordet.The District Collector called a meeting of Junagadh citizens today to concert measures to preserve peace.in the city.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿1 KILLED &amp; 6 INJUREDThe Times of India (J86J-current); Apr 20, 1955; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 111	KILLED & 6 INJURED Rival Groups ClashRAJKOT, April 19: One person was killed and six received injuries in a clash between twc rival groups in the town yesterday afternoon.The clash, it was stated, was a sequel to the marriage of £ Rajput girl to a man who belonged to the Alter community According to the police some persons entered the girl’s house yesterda}^ afternoon, and started assaulting the inmates.Lathies and knives were freely used in the fight in which si> persons sustained injuries. One of the injured later succumbed to his injuries in hospital.. The condition of one more isreported to be serious.—P.T.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Disturbances In Hyderabad: PAKISTANI FLAG HOISTEDThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Aug 19, 1954; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Disturbances In HyderabadPAKISTANI FLAG HOISTED“The Times of Indie New* Servlet .■ '	»	-..r,HYDERABAD, August 18.Minor disturbances brofc#-out today in Goshamahal, a suburb of Hyderabad city, • following the hoisting mi the Pakistani flag by soma ? miscreants.	* *The police,' however, arrive# on the scene and brought situation under control.,	’ rjMeanwhile, the Conunissioner of Police, Hyderabad, .today pro* { mulgated an order under Section J 144 GrJP.C. banning public dft- « monstrations and shouting of jrio-;^ gans within a radius of 5Q0 jawflsiiJ of the State Assembly haU.,The Government announced^ that inquiries were being i into the hoisting .of the Pakisti&tV; flag on the statue of Mahatma j Gandhi in Nizamabad on the-esto-g of NIndependence Day.  '•WARNING * SiReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿4 die in Srinagar firingThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Aug 19, 1988; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1The limes of India News Service SRINAGAR, August 18.lean iour persons were in police firing here and several incidents of violence and arson1 were reported from other ports of the Kashmir valley today following the death of the PakistanPresident Gen Zia.TT1.Han The district authorities of Srinagar imposed indefinite curfew and issued &hoot-at-sight orders this morning.Army assistance has been sought to quell Pro-Pakistan mobs which have damaged several shops and houses belonging to members of the minority community and tried to bum someplaces of worship.Armoured cars and pan-military .forces are patrolling the city, while police bandobast has berm tightened at places of worship.The divisional commissioner ofKashmir, Mr Shafi Pandit, toldTOINS that in Baramulla district of the valley, mobs hajd set fire to a public hall, a government petrol pump, a hotel and a cinema hafl.	,The offices of the Congress andthe National Conference—partners in the ruling alliance—werc also damaged by the demonstrators.In Ahantnag district, he said mobs raising anti-India slogans took, to streets and tried to set fire to a place of worship- Some shops and vehicles were also damaged in Ananfnag town.A senior police officer said the police had to open fire, at several places in Srinagar dty when the tear-gas shells and lathi-charge could not control the mobs which ianncd out in the city since news of Gen Zia’s death was broadcast last nightThe police resorted to firing when a large crowd tried to set fire to some shops in the Chhota area this morning. One Manzoor Ahmad was killed in the police firing, the nffirer said.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿2 killed, 3 hurt in Meerut violenceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jul 26, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 12 killed, 3 hurt inMeerut violenceMEERUT, July 25 (PTI): Two persons were killed and three were injured when the police opened fire on an unruly mob which indulged in violence at Sarurpur Kila, 55 km from here in Bagpet tehsil of Meerut district today,The police said the people were agitating following the death of a girl who was killed in an accident on July 21 last.In two separate incidents, two per sons were injured, when some uniden tified persons fired at them at Purw; Ahiran and Ismail Nagar.The injured have been hospitalisee and their condition was stated to be ou of danger.' ' t city oc relaxatioiMeerutcurfewThe incidents in curred during the period under the Kotwali police circle The additional district magistrate Mr D. S. S. Yadav. said today a mot gathered on the Saharanpur highwa; armed with spears and lathis an< attacked the passing buses.When the mob turned violent, th< SLIM,. Bagpet, Mr Mukesh Gupta ordered the firing.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿ldead, 3 hurt in Junagadh firingThe Times of India (1861-current); Jul 16, 1971; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 11 dead, 3 hurt in Junagadh firingJUNAGADH. July 15: One pcr-nn died ins’.antly and three other* were injured when the polite opened Ins here this afternoon in the busy Viii.h-nath Chowk area to disperse two mobs fighting with soda-water boil’es, lathis and other weapons. -One State Reserve Police (SR. I’) constable was injured when the warring factions attacked the police. The injured have been admitted . .to hospital. '	.	.The city magistrate clamped prohibitory orders under Section 144. banning the assembly of more than four persons throughout the city till 5 a.m, tomorrow.	■The situation was later described by official sources as being under control.The trouble started when two groups clashed near a local cinema house at 3.40 p.m. following a two-month-old quarrel between them.When the police intervened; the 500-strong mob attacked the police.Twenty people have been arrested so far.—U.N.I.Fast against lifting prohibitionMADRAS, July 15: About 75 men and women, led by the former Union Minister, Dr. Sushila Nayyar, went on a 12-hour fast in front of the collector’s office here from 7 a.m. to protest against the Government’s de-sion to suspend prohibition.The fast was preceded by prayers and bhajan. Fifteen students, both boys and girls, from city colleges are anions them.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Spate of violence in RaigadS BALAKRISHNAN The Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Dec 23, 1984; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 1By S. BALAKRISHNANThe rimes of India News ServiceAL.1BAG (Raigad district), December 22 :A spate of violent incidents has vitiated the election scene in the Kulaba constituency in this district. Police sources fear lhat there might be a recrudescence of violence as the polling date —> December 27 —draws closer.In the past fortnight, two murders and a series of riots have been recorded by the local police. The latest incidents took place late last night at Alibag town and at Bhal near here. Two cases of rioting were recorded in Alibag town and one in Bhal.The situation is causing particular concern to the local administration in view of the Prime Minister’s visit to the constituency on Tuesday after*noon.An interesting aspect of violence li that only the supporters of Mr. D. B. Patil (PWP), Mr. A. R. Antu'ay (1MC). and Mr. Vilas Tupe (Hindis Ekta Samiti) are involved in these incidents. Ruling party activists are nowhere in the picture. In parts ofthe district, there is a strong undercurrent of communalism, and certain vested interests aie allegedly trying to spread it throughout the constituency.According to police sources, the trouble spots include Uran, Taloia, Panvel, Pen, Roha, Mhasla and Mu-rud. Additional reinforcements of the State Reserve Police are being rushed here to prevent furthei deterioration in the law-and-order situation.At Muiud, the controversy over a burial grouud of the Muslim has been revived. Local activists of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) and the HES have bjeen pressing for the reservation of a part of the “kabra-stan grounds for recretational purposes. while this is being opposed by the Muslims. On a couple of occasions in the past, when the Muslims tried to bury their dead in the portion of the ground outside the limits of the original “kabrastan” they met with stiff resistance from VHP activists. A few days ago, highly provocative slogans were found written on the walls of a place of worship and a complaint has been registered with the Murud police. Two similar incidents were reported from two other places of worship. No arrests have been made.Last night, workers of Mr. D. B. Patil, who were returning from a meeting at Dongre Hall here addressed by a journalist, Mr. Madhav Gad-kari, and others under the auspices of the Brashtachar Nirmoolan Samiti (corruption eradication committee), allegedly stone two cars belonging to Mr. Antulay’s party.The vehicles were badly damaged and had to be towed away by the police. The samiti is headed by Mrs. Meenakshi Patil, who is the daughter of Mr. P. N. Patil, PWP leader and piesident of the Raigad zilla parishad. Incidentally, the state government had held an inquiry into alleged malpractices in the zilla parishad not long ago.The police are yet to make an arrest in connection with the murder of an Autulay supporter and bank employee, Mr. Krishna Naik (25), who was killed in stone-throwing by PWP activists at neat Taloja in Panvel taluka on Wednesday.Some of the alleged attackers, all of whom belonged io Navda village, have been identified by the injured persons and others travelling in the convoy led by Mr. Antulay. The IMC president escaped unhurt.The police have, however, arrested Mr. Tupe, who is a tesident of Pune, and 168 supporters of the HES in connection with the murder of an. other Antulay supporter, Mr. Tulsi-ram Jhambekar (23), at Wakan, about 48 km. from here.According to the police, on Thursday night Mr. Tupe and his supporters were travelling along the Pune-Bombay highway and had halted at Wakan where a number of banners urging the people to vote for Mr. Antulay were displayed. They pulled down the banners and this resulted in an altercation with IMC, workers. In the ensuing clash, Mr. Jhambekar was stabbed fatally and eight , others received knife injuries.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Karmala riot toll sevenOur Special CorrespondentThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 18, 1983; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Karmala riot sevenBv Our Special; RUNE, October 17: The death roll in the communal riot that broke out at Karmala, 140 km, from Solapur, yesterday has risen to seven.Five of them died in the police firing while two succumbed to injuries sustained during the clash between two groups. , In all, 35 people have been hospitalised.	„According .to- reports reaching here, the situation is under control and no fresh trouble has-erupted. An official said there was no need to clamp curfew oh the town as the situation now was peaceful..The district collector, Mr. Vidya-. dhar Karandikar, the district superintendent of police and other _ officials are camping in the town. A big police force and three platoons of the SRP are on bandobust duty.	<The trouble started yesterday afternoon when 6tones were allegedly Hurled on a 2,POO strong Dasara procession near a place of worship. A section of the procession then reportedly attempted to set the place of worship on fire.Bombay (UNI):	Maharashtra'sminister of state for home, Mr. Shi-vajirao Deshmukh, has left for ■ riot-affected Karmala.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿20 more die in riotsThe Times of India (1861-current); Nov 4, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 120 more die in riotsNEW DELHI, November 3.(PTI & UNI).AT least 13 persons were killed today in violence following the Ayodhya incidents while the army staged a flag march in curfew-bound Ayodhya and Faizabad and another attempt by the “kar sevaks” to enter the site was foiled.(Meanwhile, according to a TOINS report, while communal violence over the Ayodhya issue somewhat subsided in the rest of the country, rioting continued unabated in Gujarat where at least seven people were stabbed to death'in Palanpur town this evening.(Rajpipla town in Bharuch district, too, was placed under indefinite curfew followjng group clashes, arson and looting.(One person was stabbed to death on the national highway at Shuja Samdi village in Bharuch district and another killed at Um-arwada village.(The situation was comparatively peaceful in the riot-hit Ahmedabad and Baroda, where army personnel have been deployed).A Lucknow report said an estimated 7,000 “kar sevaks” (volunteers) on the other side of the Saryu bridge again tried to reach the disputed structure at Ayodhya, but security forces re-peljed them. 'There was no untoward incident in Faizabad since last night. Thousands of people took out aprocession protesting against the continuation of curfew.The processionists staged a two-hour demonstration in front of the residence of the commissioner, Mr Madhukar Gupta, demanding action against the officials who had ordered firing in Ayodhya yesterday.Curlew continued in 23 districts in the state while shoot-at-sight orders were in force in Aligarh, Meerut, Ramput, Bijnore and Gorakhpur.Two persons were killed and► South blames politicians for showdown, Page 5over 30 injured in Hapur town where curfew continued for the third day. Three persons were killed in Aligarh and three in Meerut. Two deaths each were reported from Gujarat and Karnataka and one from Bihar.Security in Ranchi was further tightened following a powerful bomb explosion in Doranda area and the police recovered three bags of explosive materials from the Ranchi hill area last night.The situation in curfew-bound Indore city was fast returning to normal.In Jabalpur, however, an uneasy calm prevailed for the second day today and curfew was clamped in Six police station areas for an indefinite period to control violent disturbahces.The police fired in the air to disperse mobs who last night had indulged in arson and burst coun-try-made bombs in group clashesin some parts of the city.The late night violence continued for some hours and over 300 anti-social elements were arrested. .The police today lobbed over 20 teargas sheets to disperse a l,20(£strong stone-throwing mob of BJP workers at Gole Methi chowk near the Prime Minister’s residence here and arrested over 400 people, including 11 MPs, protesting against the Ayodhya killings.The additional police commissioner, Mr R.K. Niyogi, said the BJP activists indulged in stone-throwing, damaged two DTC buses and attempted to break two security rings near the Prime Minister’s residence.However, the president of the Delhi unit of the BJP, Mr Madan Lai Khurana, MP, daiinedthat the teargassing and lathi-charge was “unprovoked” and their demonstration was “totally peaceful”.Mr Khurana alleged that the Centre and the Uttar Pradesh government had imposed “an undeclared emergency” by adopting “unprecedented repressive measures and imposing media censorship”.Mr Niyogi said a case had been registered under 65 Delhi Police Act adding that no one was injured in the incident though some police personnel has received “minor injuries”.(Continued on Page 24)Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Pune SacrilegeThe Times of India (J86J-current); May 10, 1988; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 8Pune SacrilegeSir,—rue recent desecration ot atemple idol in Pune has rightlyagitated the minds of not only Hindus but of Mulims also. Muslim League leaders and other prominent Muslims have promptly condemned this meaningless act of vandalism and the subsequent acts of violence against the minority community.There is an impression among non-Muslims that since Islam is opposed to idol worship, it encourages the desecration of idols of other religions and that Muslims regard this as an act of virtue, or at least a laudable act. Nothing is farther from truth.There are clear instructions in the holy Quran concerning such acts, as in the following verse: “Revile not those whom they invoke besides Allah, lest they spitefully revile Allah in their ignorance” (6-108).When Muslims are forbidden to use improper language against the gods of other religions, the desecration of these deities by Muslims is out of the question.A. KARIM SHAIKBombay.Temple Entry’Sir, — As reported in your columns (April 29/30), the President was denied entry into the sanctum sanctorum at Nataraja Temple, Chidambaram.An incident of this nature, involving the first citizen of the country, makes sad reading. But should we not attribute this to lack of homework on the part of those who planned this visit for him? Customs prevailing in south Indian temples ought to be known to them. If a particular custom prevails, is it not necessary for the staff to ask the priests to waive it, as they did for Pandit Nehru, or advise the President, who is himself a south Indian, to observe the local tradition? Lapses in homework can cause serious embarrassment.N. L. N. RAOBombay.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Shoot-at-sight orders in BelgaumThe Times of India (J86J-current); Apr 13, 1992; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1BELGAUM, April 12.SHOOT-at-sight orders have been issued in strife-tom Belgaum against those violating curfew rules and indulging in arson and violence, the police said, reports PTI.Police sources said, shoot orders had become necessary since curfew rules were violated by groups that set afire an autorickshaw and attempted to set ablaze another one at Phoolbagh Galli. Several cases of stabbing have also been reported, it is learnt.Curfew, relaxed today for three-hours till 10 a.m., was reimposed till 7 a.m. tomorrow. The situation in the city is still tense. A series of violent incidents in the city since April 5 has claimed nine lives.The Union minister for petroleum and gas, Mr B. Shankaranand, who arrived here today, appealed to leaders and people in the city to work towards restoration of peace and normalcy.He discussed the situation with the police and civil authorities and visited the affected areas. Earlier he called on those injured in the violence at the civil hospital.One more stabbing incident was reported last night.Police sources said the director-general of police, Mr M. S. Raghuraman, was camping in the city to supervise the law and order arrangements.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Fresh clashes in AurangabadThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jan 19, 1986; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Fresh clashes in AurangabadThe Times of India News Service AURANGABAD, , January 18:Curfew was reclamped on this towri today afternoon following fresh incidents or arson and violence.There was relative calm in the morning when the dusk-lo-dawn curfew imposed yesterday was lifted with most of the people preferring to stay indoors.However, in the afternoon, rival groups came on to the streets and started pelting stones on each other.The police made a lathi-charge to disperse the crowds. Thirty rioters were taken into custody.The trouble began yesterday when a procession, organised by the Shiv Sena demanding a common civil code, was attacked near a place of worship.Meanwhile, the situation in Sangamner in Ahmednagar district, which was also rocked by riots yesterday, was said to be under control today.The police said no fresh incidents were reported.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Ahmedabad IncidentsThe Times of India (1861-current); Mar 14, 1950; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 7Ahmedabad Incidents'AHMEDABAD, March 13: Three Cases of stabbing-, of which twoproved fatal, have been reported in the city today. The police are patrolling the affected areas.—P.T.I.CURFEW IN NAGPUR Nagpur:	Following an incidenton Monday evening, in which one person died of stab wounds and two were injured, one seriously, in the city area, police patrols were strengthened and curfew rigidly enforced in certain specified parts of the city on Monday night.— P.T.I.Lucknow:	According to reportsreceived here, communal trouble in the rural areas of the Shahjahan-pur District continues and about 85 deaths have been reported. A large number of arrests has been made. —UP.I.Raid On Assam TownDHTJBRI (Assam), March 13: Twenty-six persons—members of an armed Muslim crowd which raided the town on Sunday night—have been taken into custody. The party, it is learnt, carried various lethal weapons.According to information received here, over 2,000 Muslims gathered recently on the other side of the Indo-Pakistan border, near Sonahat, where the police had arrested one person stated to be a member of the Pakistan Ansar Party. But there was no incident.Jerusalem ProblemGENEVA, March 13:	The U. N.Trusteeship Council today set up a three-nation committee to draft an article in the Statute to internationalise Jerusalem which would cover broadcasting. M. Pierre Ryckman (Belgium) said that lack of such an article in the statute, now under consideration, leaves a “gap. He also said that the Council ought to see to it that broadcasting “is employed in the interests of peace and not used to incite racial differences. —U.P.A.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Firing in BarodaThe Times of India (1861-current); Apr 26, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1BARODA. April 25.THE police fired several rounds to disperse two-groups of people who indulged in pelting stones at one another in Khalif Nagar and Koyali Faliya in the city’s curfew-bound areas today, reports PTI.Stray incident of stabbing was reported in the curfew free New Era School area, in which one person was injured, the police said.Meanwhile, in Anklcshwar, Broach district, six persons were injured—four in police firing—in incidents of voilencc, stabbing and arson last night. The injured have been shifted to SSG hospital here.The bank clearing house had to suspend its operation for the second day today, as several banks located in the curfew-bound city police station areas could not function.Athwalinc area, where group clashes claimed two lives.During the combing by the police in the troubled areas of the city’s Kalargam locality, 26 swords were recovered and five persons were held in this connection.Additional companies of CRP and SRP forces had been deployed in several sensitive areas of the city, the director general of police, Mr B.S. Nirulla said adding police patrolling had also been intensified in the entire city.Mr Man Mohan Mehta, city police commissioner, said that 50 people were arrested in connection with the disturbances in the city and combing operations continued in the affected area.In Surat citv. curfew continued inReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Police firing over cricket clashesA Staff ReporterThe Times of India (J86J-current); Nov 6, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Police firing over cricket dashesBy A SttiR KtlwterBOMB AY.Ndv.S: Some 20 people were inured in mob clashes near Reay Road station andat Jogeshwari (east) indasheswhik the Indian cricket team was batting during its match with Engmtoday. The police fired four rounds in the air to quell the riotous snobs.-	■ r .'kerosene balls were used.Tenements in the affected areas were strewn with broken glass and furniture and some of the dwelling had beenContinued on page 3Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.Ahmedabad clashesover cricket defeatContinued from Pago 1scorched by the kerosene torches.' A senior police official said some 17 persons had been iqjured in the riot, including a constable who was hit by an acid bulb. They were taken to the JJ. Hospital where all but one were treated and allowed to go. «Police officials at the spot said Tank Bunder Road was a sensitive area and five policemen were always on duty there. When trouble broke out today, they fired four rounds and called for reinforcements, the officials added. Sizable number of policemen have been posted at Reay Road, Nagpada and Dongirarea^ to avert further trouble. • >Stone-throwing alsotook place at Harijan Nagar in Jogethwari east in the afternoon renilting in injuries to one person.TOINS adds from Ahmedabad: At least 14 people were injured in group clashes in two different localities of the city this evening following the defeat of India.Two of the injured were hurt in stabbing incidents. .The group dashes and heavy stonethrowing started soon after some miscreants startedbursfing firecrackers in communally sensitive areas of Bapunagar and Shahpur.The situation took a turn for the worse in Bapunagar, where a mob also set fire to a scooter. A journalist of a prominent local newspaper, who had gone to Bapunagar to cover the outbreak of violence, was gheraoed and injured in the melee.Senior police officers, including the commissioner of police, Mr S. N. Sinha rushed to Bapunagar and brought the situation under control. People complained to Mr Sinha that four SRP jawans who were posted in the area (fid not bother to bring the situation under control.	•In another inddent in the Shahpur area, six people were injured in stonethrowing. Four pan stalls were damaged.Stone-throwing was also reported from the Teen Darwaja area and from the Haveli police station area However, the Id-e-Milad procession passed peacefully from these areas. In view of violent inridents in different parts of the rity, the police commissioner has intensified the police patrolling in sensitive areas.In Nadiad town, the police fired two rounds to disperse two groups indulging in stone-throwing after die match was over.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿JNU teachers call off strikeThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 9, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 15JNU teachers call off strikeThe Times of India News ServiceNEW DELHI, September 8: The Jawaharlal Nehru University Teachers’ Association (JNUTA) yesterday decided to call off its strike and announced that teaching would be resumed in the university from September 9.	,in a resolution adopted at its general body meeting, the fNUTA also decided to disaffiliate itself from the All-India Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisations (AIFUCTO), and charged the federation with having betrayed the teachers’ cause.The Jamia Millia Islamia University Teachers Association resolved to continue its strike. At a general body meeting the association rejected the agreement between the AIFUCTO and the government and called for the resignation of the AIFUCTO officer-bearers.	•The Delhi University Teachers Association (DUTA) is scheduled to take a decision on the continuation of the strike at its general body meeting today. The staff associations of the university’s 50-odd colleges held their meetings yesterday, and 15 colleges, whose decisions were declared till the evening, had resolved in favour of continuing the strike.Tension in BelgaumThe Times of India News ServiceBELGAUM, September 8: Tension prevailed in Chikodi and Ramdurg towns near here, as police resorted to a lathi-charge when two groups of people clashed yesterday.The violence reportedly broke out following the stoning of a procession by some miscreants. Ten people were stated to have received injuries.The executive magistrate has clamped prohibitory orders on the town for three days. Police reinforcements have Iwn niched In the areaReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿3 killed in riotsThe Times of India (1861-current); Nov 15, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1DELHI UNDER SECURITY BLANKETTHE entire capital particularly the walled city area, was brought under a “security blanket” tonight after violence and arson in the Idgah Road area of the walled city left three people dead and more than 30 injured.The chief secretary, Mr Vijay Kapoor, said that extra vigil was being maintained in the trans-Yamuna area and some other localities with “sizeable” mixed population besides the affected areas to prevent any untoward incident.Mr Kapoor said additional police and para-military forces had been deployed in the walled city area tonight taking the total in the area to 25 companies.The walled city had been subdivided into half-a-dozen sectors and each one of them placed under a Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), he said.Mr Kapoor said additional commissioner of police, Mr P. R. S. Brar had also been inducted into thewalled city area for the time to ensure “foolproof’ security arrangements.Meanwhile, the Delhi police commissioner, Mr Vijay Karan has promulgated pohibitory orders in Parliament Street area, banning assembly of five or more persons and taking out processions and demonstrations, reports PTI.The order comes into effect from today and shall remain in force till November 21.The Lt. Governor of Delhi, MrAijan Singh, announced compensation of Rs one lakh each to the next of kin of those killed in the rioting and Rs 10,000 to those seriously injured, a Raj Niwas spokesman said.The spokesman said that compensation would also be paid to those whose property had been damaged in arson and looting in the Sadar Bazar area of. old Delhi.Rampaging crowds were seen indulging in stabbing, looting of shops and burning vehicles in the area.Around ten people were stabbed in the Nawab Road locality of Sadar Bazar.It is not yet known whether the deaths occurred in the police firing or due to stabbing.At least four persons were rushed to the LNJP hospital with injuries caused by sharp weapons, doctorssaid and identified two of them as Ramji Lai, 21, of Madangir and Anil Kumar, 20, of Ganeshpura.The Lt Governor of Delhi, Mr Aijan Singh, the city police commissioner, Mr Vijay Karan, and other senior officials visited the riot-hit areas and took stock of the situation.Tension gripped the area after rumours that a Sadbhavatia Yatra procession was stoned at its terminating point near Idgah.At least two vehicles were seen burning at Nawab Road which divides the Kasapura and Basti Harphool Singh localities in Sadar Bazar.More than 40 people were arrested on charges of rioting whipping up communal passions, and damage to public and private property.At least five houses and three shops were set on fire by the rioters.The chief casualty medical officer of the Bara Hindu Rao Hospital, Dr P.K. Hazarika, said all the three victims had been “brought dead” to the hospital. Dr Hazarika said two of them had been hit by bullets while the third has been stabbed.The peace march which began from Gurdwara Sis Ganj had reached its termination point at the Idgah(Continued on Page 13)Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.Three killed in(Continued from Page 1)road around 3.30 p.m. and was about to disperse when miscreants attacked the procession, the police said.Immediately afterwards, pitched battles started between the members of the three communities as they went on firing, stabbing and burning ‘spree, police said.According to sources, the trouble in the walled city broke out hours after an incident of burning of a holy book in south Delhi’s east of Kailash colony late last night Meanwhile, the former Prime Minister, Mr V.P. Singh, today said the desecration of holy books at Jallunder and in Delhi appeared to be part of a planned conspiracy meant to rouse divisive feelings and appealed to the people not to let this antinational activity suppeed.In Jalandhar the police fired in the air to disperse two groups indulging in brickbatting here even as indefinite curfew clamped on the town yesterday following burning of two holy books continued without relaxation today.	. ,, , At least seven people were injured in the brickbatting. The police fired four rounds in the air to disperse clashing groups.	.. Stray incidents of stone-throwing and ahbn wet's reported from several . parts of,, the1'town. Some youths stoned vehicles parked outside theriotsDoordarshan Kendra.JALANDHAR BANDH: The presidents and secretaries of the managing committees of religious places in an emergency meeting held at Ajit Nagar today gave a call for a three-day bandh in the city from tomorrow to protest against the burning of two holy books yesterday.A resolution adopted at the mating appealed to the people, particularly youth, to maintain peace and not to get provoked or indulge in any provocation themselves.The meeting, through another resolution, constituted a five-member committee of local priests to decide the mode and timing of immersion of the ashes of the holy books at Goindwal in Amritsar district. It also decided to start non-stop recital of the holy Granth Sahib at the Ajit Nagar religious place from tomorrow.The police today handed over to the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMQ the copy of the holy book, allegedly burnt by some miscreants in a place of worship in east of Kailash last evening, reports UNI.TOINS adds: Special security has been provided in Delhi to religious places of a particular community. This step followed the .burning of their holy book by a miscreant in a place of worship east of Kailash here yesterday evening.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Varanasi still tenseThe Times of India (J86J-current); Nov 23, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1Varanasi stilltenseVARANASI, Nov. 22 (PTI): Thesituation in Varanasi today continued to remain “tense but under control” without any major incident being reported since yesterday.The district magistrate, Mr Saurabh Chandra, said here after reviewing the situation late last night that the district administration had changed its earlier decision to allow relaxation in curfew. Now the curfew relaxation would be in three phases, he said.In areas under Kotwali, Chowk, Luxa, Chetganj and Dashswamedh police station, barring Madanpura area, the curfew would be relaxed from 9 a.m. till noon in the first phase.In the second phase, the curfew would be relaxed from 2 p.m. till 5 p.m. in areas under Jaitpura, Adampuga, Bhelupura, including Bajardiha area and Sigra police stations.In Madanpura area the curfew relaxation would be for one hour from 12,30 p.m., he sai(i.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿One killed in firing in BangaloreOur Special CorrespondentThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 5, 1982; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9One killed in firing in BangaloreBy Our Special CorrespondentBANGALORE, September 4: One person was killed and a few others injured in Austin Down here today, when the police opened fire on a rioting mob.Trouble was reported to have started when the police, under instructions from the Bangalore Development Authority, proceeded to demolish a place of ^worship, allegedly built on a vacant BDA plot.The police action resulted in a protest by a group of about 5,000 people and sodawater bottles and stones werp freely used against the police, it was alleged.Mr. C. M. Ibrahim, former minister and currently Congress (I) MLA, has resigned from the executive committee of the Congress Legislature Party (I) to protest against the demolition.	-----■***‘-1--—Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿2 die, 8 hurt in Godhra clashThe Times of India (J86J-current); Aug 2, 1981; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Briefs: Curfew clamped on SuratThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jan 26, 1993; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Curfew clampedon SuratSURAT:The army conducted a flag march in the Rander area on Monday, and an indefinite curfew was clamped on the entire area, as sporadic incidents of violence continued to rock different localities of. Rander on Sunday night, reports TOINS.A telecom official was stabbed to death, and two other officials were critically injured by sharp weapons on Sunday night near the Taj society between the Mora Bhagal and Rander areas.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿SIX DEAD &amp; 43 HURT IN RIOTS: 24-Hour Curfew In AligarhThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 4, 1961; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1SIX DEAD & 43 HURT IN RIOTS24-Hour Curfew In AligarhALIGARH, October 3.SIX persons were killed and 43 injured in a flare-up in the city today, according to unofficial figures.A 24-hour curfew has been clamped down on the city .and the full -.riot scheme enforced.The District Magistrate in a press note issued tonight said:“Owing to the failure of university authorities in taking prompt action against the delinquent students who had belaboured six Hindu students in the Ziauddin Hostel on the night of October 1, communal tension developed both in the city and the university area last night.POLICE REINFORCEMENTS“This morning, in spite of an order under Section 144 Cr. P.C. and police reinforcements, a mob of about 5.000 persons tried to proceed from the city to the university area at 10. If was intercepted by the district authorities with the help of the police near the railway bridge and was forced back and dispersed after a show of force.“Taking advantage of the situation, some persons who bore old enmity attacked neighbouring houses and assaulted the inmates. One person was arrested with a foreign-made gun. Some shops owned by members of both communities were burnt on the outskirts of the university area known as Samshad Market. Curfew for 24 hours has been Clamped on the city from tonight. The injured student* were shifted from the University Hospital to the Government District Hospital.“Three battalions of the Armed Police Constabulary have arrived from Agra and the full riot scheme has been enforced. The Commissioner and D. I. G., Agra, have arrived here.” Mr. K. C. Joshi, District Magistrate, has issued the following press note:	.“Following the declaration of the results of the union elections of Aligarh Muslim University, students in the Ziauddin Hostel fell out result-Continued on Page 7 Column 2Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Riots spread in U.P.The Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Dec 14, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Riots spread in U.P,The Times of India News Service LUCKNOW, December 13.GOMMUNAL	violence,which was already engulfed Kanpur and Aligarh, has spread to two more sensitive cities of Meerut and Varanasi, raising the number of districts affected by the current spell of rioting to six in Uttar ?radesh.Despite the deployment of troops in the strife-tom Chamanganj and Benconganj police areas in Kanpur city since yesterday evening, sporadic firing and acts of arson and attack on a place of worship by mobs were reported today.With the death of one person, who had sustained injuries yesterday, the toll in Kanpur today rose to 14,according to an official spokesman here.In Aligarh, the toll rose to S3 following the death of a newspaper hawker who was stabbed, by some persons in Sarai Bibi locality this morning. Two persons were injured in ai bomb explosion in the Dharampuri area and two shopkeepers were shot at by a mob in the Lisadi Gate area in Meerut city yesterday evening. While one of them died, the other was . being treated for gunshot injuries at the Meerut medical college. Later the district administration imposed curfew in the entire Meerut city and parts of the cantonment area. All educational institutions in Meerut' have been closed till further orders.The police used teargas to disperse the agitated students who tried to take out a procession to register their protest against communal clashes in Aligarh, he said.The ten police station areas under curfew are Kotwali Chowk, Dashaswamedh, Luxa, Chetganj, Lanka, Bhelupura, Sigra, Jaitpura and Adampur.The spokesman said, students of the Banaras Hindu University (BHU) who were refused permission to take out a procession, indulged in brickbatting, PTI adds.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Police Fire On Mob: JAMMU CLASHThe Times of India (J86J-current); Dec 16, 1952; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Police Fire On MobJAMMU CLASHNEW DELHI, Dec. 15.A violent mob, nearly 800 in number, armed with lathis, spears and axes attacked tehsil and police buildings at Chhamb, 50 miles from Jammu on Pakistani border, yesterday in an attempt to hoist forcibly the Praja Pari-shad flag, according to a press note issued by the Kashmir Bureau of Information.Sardar Sohan Singh, First Class Magistrate on duty, tried in vain to persuade the ringleaders to disperse peacefully. The mob instead proceeded towards the police station and when the police tried to stop their entry a section of the mob manhandled the Police Sub-Inspector, Mr. Jaishi Ram.Eight constables were also injured as the result of stones being thrown at them. The Magistrate on duty finding that the small police force was being overwhelmed, ordered fire to be opened in self-defence as also to prevent the mob from indulging in further violence.A body of a victim of Chhamb firing, was brought to Jammu late last night by a lorry driver and was carried today in procession by Praja Parishad and R. S. S. volunteers in some bazars of the city before it was cremated.	..The Government has ordered a judicial inquiry into the incident. The situation in other parts of Jammu is reported to be quiet.—U.P.T.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿TWO DIE IN MEERUT: INDEFINITE CURFEW IMPOSEDThe Times of India (J86J-current); Oct 7, 1961; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Indefinite Curfew ImposedMEERUT. October 6.TROOPS were called out to assist the police in Meerut where two persons were killed and 13 others were injured in communal disturbances that flared up today.Curfew has been _ imposed on the town for an indefinite period. Unruly mobs today looted and burnt several shops and houses at various places in the city.	• ■Among the injured persons-: are Mr. Rawat, Deputy Superintendent of ^Police, and Mr. Balbir Singh, City Kotwal, who were injured when brickbats were thrown in. Purwa Sheikhlal. IThe Home Minister, Mr. _ Charan Singh, who arrived here this afternoon told newsmen that the district authorities all over the State had been asked to take stem measures to handle the situation.MINISTER’S WARNINGMr. Charan Singh said that if the situation worsened in Meerut, the district authorities would not hesitate to, take recourse _ to extraordinary provisions, including the imposition of collective fines and the arrest of people under the Preventive Detention Act. _The Minister also said that the additional police- force would reach Meerut from Agra and Sitapur- tomorrow along with some additional police officers and a Deputy Inspector-General.	#Reports of tension in some other towns of Meerut District have also reached here, and at some places unruly mobs are reported to have burnt some; shops.	_A press note issued by the District Magistrate, however, stated ' thatContinued on Page 7 Column 5Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.TENSE SITUATION IN MEERUT Round-up Of ‘Goondas’Continued from Page I Column 8nothing untoward had happened anywhere in the interior of the district.Defying prohibitory orders, the students again took out a procession here this morning, but ultimately they dispersed.The police were sui rounded at several places and the people ol one community made an unsuccessful attempt on the life of a sub-inspector.The situation is still tense and the police and the Army have been asked to take due precautions during the night.About 50 goondas and mischief-mongers were arrested today. The press note issued by the District Magistrate, however, did not give the exact number of persons arrested,Mr. Shah Nawaz Khan. Deputy Railway Minister, and Mrs. Pra-kashvati Sood, State Deputy Minister, earlier toured various localities in the city.—F.N.S.I Gorakhpur: The District Magistrate today promulgated a prohibitory order under Section 144, Cr.P.C.. banning meetings and processions in the city.About 800 students of the Gorakhpur University, who tried to take oul a procession in the city, found it difficult to proceed from the University campus.Earlier at a meeting the students adopted a resolution condemning the attack on the Aligarh University students belonging to one community, They urged the Government to take action against the culprits.—l.N.S.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿2 killed in Aligarh clashThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jun 23, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 42 killed in Aligarh clashThe Times of India News ServiceLUCKNOW. June 22: Two persons were stabbed to death and several others injured in a clash that followed the arrest of a person belonging to a particular community in Aligarh last night.According to an official spokesman.,the clash took place when an irate mob gathered at the kotwali, demanding the release of the arrested person. Alleging that the arrest had been made on fictitious grounds”, the mob attacked the kotwali with stones and use force to disperse crowd.However no sooner had the crowd dispersed them group clashes occurred in the localities around the kotwali.Several people received stab injuries.Nine people were arrested in connec- ’ tion with the violence.Meanwhile, six additional companies of the provincial armed constabulary (PAC) have been deployed in Aligarh, where seven companies were already keeping a strict vigil on the law and order situation.Later, when contacted, the chief minister. Mr Bir Bahadur Singh, described the situation as well “under control”.Civic body soon for New BombayThe Times of India News ServicePANVEL, June 22: A municipal corporation is to be set up before August 15 for New Bombay and its adjoining areas, according to the minister for urban development. Dr V. Subramaniam. He said this at a meeting at CIDCO Bhavan yesterday in connection with the Kalamboli steel yard complex.	'The. meeting was attended by the officials of the Maharashtra Electricity Board. CIDCO, the Thane police commissioner and the joint convenor of the steel market complex at Kalamboli. Mr S. P. Khosla.Mr Khosla said the high cost of transport and inadequate police protection had delayed the shifting of the steel yard.Call for Afghan solutionNEW DELHI. June 22 (UNI): A national conference on Afghanistan yesterday appealed to all countries in the region to extend their support for “reconciliation, peace and progress of the people of Afghanistan.The speakers included the former supreme court judge, MrV. R. Krishna Iyer, Mr Harkishan Singh Surjit (CPM). Mr M. Farooqi (CPI) and MrH.	N. Bahuguna (Lok Dal).Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿24 burnt alive in SuratThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Dec 10, 1992; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1The Times of India News Service and PTINEW DELHI, Dec. 9AT LEAST 200 more people died today as the violence sparked by Sunday’s demolition of Ayodhya’s Babri mosque continued incessantly, mainly in six states, escalating the toll beyond 700, reports PTI.However, official sources stated here 560 people have been killed and 2,475 injured. The general situation has improved,except in some areas of Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra, they claimed. I Assam, hit for the first time yesterday, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh reeled under mob fury for the third straight day today. In Maharashtra, the toll touched 200, with 130deaths in Bombay alone.The army was deployed this morning in Mehsana, Sidhpur and Palanpurin north Gujarat, Godhra and Himatnagar and in south Gujarat’s premier city of Surat as the death toll mounted to 173 in the ! state during the orgy of violence and police firing.At least 536 people have received major injuries in: either police firing, stabbing or in group clashes and stone-throwing since violence broke out in the state,Surat was the worst affected inthe state with the highest death roll of 111 and injuries to more than 390 people. At least 24 bodies burnt beyond recognition have been found by the police from the Ved Road area alone. With the situation taking a turn for theworse because of group clashes and roasting people alive, the army was deployed in the six most sensitive areas of Varchha, Udhana, Rander, Umara, Chawk and Salabatpura in Surat city and the authorities also imposed a curfew late last night in two more areas of Rander and Varchha police stations.The chief minister, Mr Chimanbhai Patel, the home minister, Mr C.D. Patel, and the director general of police, Mr A.K. Tandon, accompanied by other senior officials, visited Surat to review the situation on-the-spot and also took an aerial view of the city.ARMY IN ASSAM: The death toll in Assam, the worst-hit eastern state by communal frenzy in the aftermath of the demolition of the Babri Masjid, rose to 67 today asthe army was called out in Tinsukia town, where the police opened fire to control a 4000 strong mob.Official reports said, fresh deaths were reported from disturbed Hojai, where three more bodies were found during the day. Hojai alone accounted for 40 deaths in arson, one each died in Dhubri, Tezpur, Bongaigaon and Cachar districts.Two persons who were injured seriously in the firing were removed to the Assam medical college hospital in Dibrugarh.Security measures were tightened in and around the town and pickets posted in vulnerable places.Shoot-at-sight orders have been issued in Hojai.The army has already moved (Continued on Page 9)Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.(Continued from Page 1)into Hojai which had been placed under indefinite curfew since last night, the sources said, adding that hundreds of houses had been burnt in several villages and there were reports of large scale violence.AYODHYA TOLL: The toll in violence in the wake of developments in Ayodhya rose to 104 with 38 fresh casualties reported from different parts of the state today.Official reports reaching here said 17 people were killed in three villages under Lohata Bazar, Dhan-nipur and Mahmoodpur villages in Varanasi district this afternoon.RIOTS SPREAD: The toll in Rajasthan has risen to 26 as one more person was killed today in post-demolition communal frenzy as incidents of violence spread to Malpura and Dausa, the police said.The army was called out at Malpura as violence erupted early morning today between two groups of people in which one person was stabbed, the police said.Indefinite curfew clamped last Monday continued without any relaxation on the third day today at Tonk, Ajmer, Nagaur, Merta, Dungcrpur and Jaipur.Barring some stray incidents, the situation in the curfew-bound areas was reported to be “tense but incident-free”, the police said.KARNATAKA ARSON: The violence and arson that has erupted in parts of Karnataka has so far claimed 43 lives, with three more deaths reported today.The police said two persons succumbed to stab injuries in Mysore and a bullet-ridden body of a youth was recovered near Hosur check-post in Bangalore’s outskirts today.The violence in the city which was confined to ten police station limits so far spread to more areas today.Tension mounted in Mangalore, Mysore, Gulbarga, Hubli, Bidar and Bangalore, the police added.BENGAL CURFEW: Curfew was clamped in Calcutta as the army was today called out to assist the civil administration in Champdaniarea under Bhadreswar police station in Hooghly district, where tension ran high after one person was killed, the police said.Trouble sparked off when a bomb was thrown on a BJP procession taken out in connection with the Bharat bandh. One of the,processionists was fatally injured,, the sources said.TOLL IN A.P.: The death toll in,Andhra Pradesh in violence and police firing rose to 21 today with ' three more deaths reported from the districts even as the situation in the curfew-bound old city of the state capital was brought under, control.	.M.P. TOLL 57: The continuing , violence in Madhya Pradesh has so far claimed 57 lives, with the city accounting for 40 deaths, the chief minister, Mr Sunderlal Patwa, said today.	'*■Addressing a press conference here, Mr Patwa said the situation • was being reviewed constantly and the city would be handed over to the army only if it was felt necessary.ORISSA VIOLENCE: Shoot-at-sight orders were issued in riot-tom Cuttack in Orissa today as the situation deteriorated with com tinuing violence and arson, inspite of the 48-hour curfew imposed in the city.ARMY IN KERALA: The army was called out in Kerala’s Kasaragod, Malappuram and Kozhikode districts.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿POLICE PLATOONS STATIONED: ORISSA INDUSTRIAL TOWNSThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Mar 20, 1964; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1POLICE PLATOONS STATIONED Drissa Industrial Towns“The Tiir.es of India” News Service |CUTTACK* March 19: Platoons of ! the Orissa Military Police have taken j up positions in the four industrial towns j of Rourkela. Jharsuguda, Rajgangpur ^ tnd Brajarajnagar where communal feelings have been running high since ( I'esterday.	.A prohibitory order under Section 144. Cr. P. C.t has been enforced n these places. The situation has >een brought under control).One person died of knife injuries md six others were injured in inci-lents in Rourkela yesterday, it was )fficially stated here. The steel plant vas not affected. .Two cases of arson were reported n Jharsuguda in which a liquor .hop and a cinema house were involved. Some persons were injured n Brajarajnagar while at Rajgang-mr, too, three incidents occurred.The police have started rounding jp mischievous elements and so far ibout .30 persons have been taken nto custody.Baseless rumours that attempts had teen made to sabotage the refugee ■pedal going to the Manna transit ;amp and that there was also an at-empt at poisoning the food of refuses. it was stated, had led to the ncidents in these towns along the oute of the train.Sambalpur: Communal unrest is preading in Sambalpur District.Bight persons were injured at Rour-cela railway station last night when utacked by a mob when the Nagpur-' jound night passenger arrived there.3ne of. them suepmbed to the inju-ies on the tvay to hospital.Tension prevails in Jharsuguda also vhere one person was reported :o rave, been stabbed.Precautionary measures have been aken in Sambalpur also. .Jamshedpur Clash, Page 7Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Five Killed &amp; 19 Hurt In Bareilly: Attack Made On ProcessionThe Times of India (1861-current); Aug 28, 1962; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Attack Made On ProcessionBAREILLY, August 27.pHVE persons were killed and 19 were injured, several of them seriously, when communal trouble flared up in the Ja-mantpur village in Baheri tehsil of Bareilly District on August 24, according to official reports received here.The trouble started lollo\ving an attack on a Janmastami procssion by members of a minority community.According to the official version the procession was taken out at about 1 p.m., when it found the main road impassable as it was slushy. The processionists then took an alternative route which touched a locality of the minority community.When the procession reached the area, the pradhan of the locality and his son objected to the procession being taken through the area, but the processionists maintained that the diversion of the procession was necessary.HOT WORDS EXCHANGEDHot words were exchanged between the processionists and members of the minority community. They were reported to have attacked the processionists with brickbats and assaulted them injuring several of them. They were also reported to have damaged the “Sinhasan” (throne) and the idol of Krishna.When the news of the incident spread among the people who were awaiting the arrival of the procession, some people went to Jamantpur and raided some houses and set fire to thatched roofs. Several persons were injured and some damage to property was caused.The district authorities first learnt about the .riot from a telegram which the Hindus had sent from Baheri.The Superintendent of Police, Mr. Jaghamand Singh Arya,, told pressmen on his return here that the trouble was over by 4 p.m,Armed guards arc patrolling the area and normalcy has returned to the village.Ten people have been arrested.— P.T.l.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿TWO KILLED IN JAMMU POLICE FIRING: ARMED MOB ATTACKS GOVERNMENT ...The Times of India (1861-current); Dec 30, 1952; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1TWO KILLED IN JAMMU POLICE FIRINGArmed Mob Attacks Government OfficePARISHAD AGITATION TAKES GRAVE TURNNEW DELHI, December 29TWO persons were killed and one was seriously injured A when the police fired ten rounds in Sunderbani in Jammu, yesterday, to disperse a 2,000-s^rong “violent unruly mob” a press note issued by the Kashmir Government Information Bureau said here today.The Deputy Commissioner of Sunderbani, Mr.Arjun Nath Sapru, and nine constables received serious injuries as the result of stone throwing by the mob, the press note added.Nearly 2,000 persons, who had been imported from the adjacent “illaqas” and led by local Parishad workers, attacked the Niabat office at 4-30 p.m., according to the press note.A majority of the mob were armed with spears, axes, hatches and lathis.‘‘The Deputy Commissioner of the area, Mr. Arjun Nath Sapru, who was present on the spot and the Assistant Superintendent of Police, Thakur Mahatam Singh, tried their best to prevail upon the leaders of the mob to disperse peacefully but their efforts proved of no avail.” f1 CONSTABLE BeAeNThe mob, the press note added, beat one of the constables with lathis causing serious injuries.They then threw stones, on the officers and police who took shelter in the tehsil building, The mob attacked the ' building, breaking open windows and smashing glass panes. This was followed by a concerted attack by a section of the mob, who entered the' building with a view presumably to causing harm to the officers and men who had taken shelter there. The Deputy Commissioner considered that further forbearance on the part of the authorities would result in greater violence by the mob and put in grave danger the very lives of the officers , and men taking shelter in the building.FIRE ORDEREDHe, therefore, ordered ftre to be opened. In all, ten rounds were fired by the police, resulting in two persons being killed and one receiving serious injury. At this stage the mob dispersed,“The number of policemen engaged in dealing with the mob was 30, out of whom only eight were armed. Serious injuries have been caused to nine constables as the result of stone throwing by the mob. The Deputy ' Commissioner himself has been hit severely by stones.”—F.T.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿One killed in HyderabadThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 23, 1984; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1HYDERABAD, September 22 (TDNI): pne'vperson/was-: TfcilJ&d^nd another-' injured, ;-m .-.-tresh' siabbiltg incidents :hekr a place'of\ worship •^hiilc the. ,fhhcral{pfpcessiph of a ri'dt victim -Was:,'being; taken, jii the ,tip|*cu;rfew Mailcpalli area tqnight, -the police said),'	■V/ilh this.; the. toll in the communal disturbances’ sinefe September 9 rose to -27. •• '-•••	:;jn (■The city police commissioner. Mr R. Prabhakara Rap, -said curfew w.ould,: be: relaxed' for 10 hours from 8 a.m. tomorrow in 18. police station limits, rand fori J6 hqurs in other eichV police limits.-. ; -. ‘, ;The chief ' minister, Mr- N. -T. Rajnia Rao, /cut Short. Jiis.'visji - to Madras and .returned; .here' this evening - to • review the. iaw- and Drder situation, PTI -reports. :■	■Mr - Rama -Rao, who had - gone to Madras last’ night‘to see; his wife, Undergoing;. treatment at; Adyar Cancer -Hospital, , 1,old > reporters here that- -he, wak^UF^t^wheti informed' by . officials f ■ >, ,thaC;-curfew could not be .lifted- this.'' morning due to sdipe^indiddnts vlast/iiightf f,Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Rajasthan town: under curfewThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 3, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 7Rajasthan town Under curfewJAIPUR, Sept. 2 (PT1): Curfew was imposed in Banswara town after a youth was killed in police firing when a religious procession turned violent last night, according to official reports reaching here today.Police sources sajd the situation in the town was now under control but’ the curfew was continuing with no relaxation.Police sources said that the troublestarted when the processionists triedto divert the route of the procession fixed by the administration in consultation with the peace committee.The police burst teargas shells and later resorted to firing when pro-:essionists started pelting stones, the sources said.Additional police forces have been rushed to Banswara from neigh-nouring towns and cities including Udaipur, Chittorgarh, Kherwara, Dungarpur and Salumber.The six persons, including five aoliccmen who were injured in the ncident have been admitted to a ocal government hospital.1()0 more AIR stations plannedPATNA, Sept. 2 (PTI): One hundred radio stations would be set upin the country in the next three years.This was announced by the Union minister for information and broadcasting, Mr P. Upendra, at a press conference here yesterday.Mr Upendra said that 20 stations had already been set up and the remaining would be opened in the next three years. Each station would :ost Rs 2.5 crores, he said.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Mass contact plan from Sept. 15 in Tamil NaduThe Times of India (J86J-current); Sep 2, 1969; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 9Mass contact plan from Sept. 15 in Tamil Nadu‘The Times of India” News ServiceMADRAS, September 1: A mass contact piogramme under which officers will personally attend to the problems of villagers will be inaugurated in all districts by the Government of Tamil Nadu on September 15, synchronising wiih the birthday of the late Chief Minister, Mr. C. N. An-nadurai.A team of officials of the revenue.panehayat union, public works and electricity departments led by an officer not below the rank of deputy tahsildar will visit a village in each revenue firka on the fifth of every month. The aim is that every village should he visited by a team of officials once a year.PUBLIC GRIEVANCESThe officials will receive, petitions, hear grievances and take decisions on the spot. If an immediate decision is not possible, they would register the request and see that orders are hrmd-_I ed over to the villagers within one month.Revenue divisional officers will visit one taluka office once a month, according tp a programme drawn up in advance and circulated to the parties concerned. The district collector will visit the divisional office and receive petitions and look into problems according to a pre-publicised plan, once in six months.The Government said today that it had recently carried out successfully an experiment on these lines called ■‘multi-point programme'’ ’ in Cingie-pul. North Arcol and Ramanatha-puram districts.Labour Conference to meet in Nov.‘The Times of India” News ServiceNh\V DLLHl, September 1: A special meeting of the Indian Labour Conference is being convened here in November to discuss the recommendations of the National Labour Commission.The Labour Ministry is credited with the view that some of the recommendations made by the commission could be dealt with at the administrative level. Before taking any decision, the Ministry would like to ascertain ihe views of both labour and employers’ organisations.Legislative measures that may have to be taken to implement some of the major recommendations of the commission would be examined by a special department to be soon set up in the Ministry of Labour in co-operation with the Ministry of Law.'Ihe role of the State Governments is likely to be decisive in shaping the ' legislative measures. 'I he exigence ol | the two communist-led Governments 1 in West Bengal and Kerala will make | the task rather difficult, because of ; their commitment to radical changes ! in labour legislation.	.| The Union Labour Ministry : has ali reads sought the opinion ol the State ; Governments on the commission's rc-com mendations.4 die in group clashQU1I.ON. September 1: Tour people died and two were injured, ore of them seriously, in a clash which occurred yesterday evening in the Kottara-kara station limits,, about 24 km. from here.According to reports reaching official sources here, members belonging to families of two different communities were involved in the clash which was a sequel to the alleged leasing of a girl belonging to one community by a boy of the other recently.	_Mr. Krishna Pillai, r a former president of the Inchakatt Panehayat, was among those killed.The injured are in hospital.—P.T.I.The External Affairs Minister, Mr. Dincsh Singh, launched	a trainingcourse on Monday for a group of pressmen from Asia and Africa at the Indian Institute of Mass Communication in New Delhi.	-Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Karnataka firing claims 2 livesOur Special CorrespondentThe Times of India (1861-current); Apr 18, 1982; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1claims 2 livesBy Our Special CorrespondentBANGALORE, April 17.A POLICE firing at Chitra-. durga, 120 miles from here, touched off by the Kannada agitation, today claimed two lives. Two of the four others, hit by bullets, were said to be in a serious condition.Intense passions have been generated by a massive agitation launched by Kannada protagonists for the compulsory teaching of the language in schools and these have led to counterprotests by linguistic minorities.At Chitradurga, a procession of Kannadk agitators, who want the Gokak committee report in this regard implemented, clashed with a minoritylinguistic group, according to reports reaching here. Jhere was a pitched battle between the. rival sections, with stones and weapons being used. There was arson, too, with ,a truck/ scooter and shop being gutted.	'After a lathi-charge and' tear-gas shelling proved ineffective, the police opened fire, it was stated. Thirty-two people were injured in the lathi-charge.In Bangalore, at. least two buses were set on fire,, besides several cars and scooters, according to first reports. Bus services were withdrawn, immediately from the trouble spots-—Kempt? Gowda Road, Nruputhunga Road and near Government Arts and Science College. Several cinema houses and buildings were damaged in stone-throwing.Senior poliec officials and members of the constabulary were among the targets of stone-throwing. Cinema houses and shops pulled down their shutters on Avenue Road, Chikpot and Kempe Gowda Road as mobs held sway, although briefly. The police made, a lathi-charge and burst tear-gas shells to quell the menacing crowds.Today marked the entry into the agitation of Raj Kumar, matinee idol, Ariant Nag, Srinath and other cine artistes.Raj Kumar led a huge procession from Mysore Bank Square to the Go-pala' Gowda Circle opposite Vidhana Sott<|ha where a relay hunger-strike of Kannada protagonists has been going on for the past four days. The crowds thickened as Rajkumar spokefavouring the implementation of the six-month-old Gokak report.After this, he and other film artistes were mobbed by their -innumerable fans. But they were whisked away by the police “in. order to protect them”-But the ^ fans thought thgt their screen idols had been arrested arid began to, throw stones at the police. The missiles came from all directions and at several places.A poliec source said Rajkumar was hale and hearty - and resting in his hotel-room.	:	,Kannada satyagrahis” forced the' closure of government offices in Dava-nagere yesterday. A dharna was staged _ befosr 'the houses of legislators in Dharwar. There/has been a spate of -esignations from various Kannada bodies, including the organising committee of the proposed world Kannada conference to be held in Mysore in November.	•A prohibitory order against (he assembly of more than four persons foi seven days was imposed on Bangalore. ,Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Toll mounts to 111 as violence rages onThe Times of India (1861-current); May 26, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1MEERUT, May 25 (PTI).-THE death roll in the week-long communal violence in the city rose to 111 today as reports of mounting tension came in from neighbouring towns of Ghaziabad Muzaffamagar Modinagar and Hadur.The army was called in Hapur after tension gripped the town following two bomb explosions and curfew, continued without relaxation for the seventh straight day covering more than two-thirds of the population in the city.Thirtyfour bodies were recovered with marks of wounds inflicted by sharp edged weapons from Hindon rivers in Ghaziabad and the Uttar Pradesh government ordered a CID inquiry into it.Security measures have been tightened throughout Muzaffarnagar district with armed police patrolling and the pickets posted at sensitive points.About 150 people were injured and over 2,500 people have arrested in the Meerut alone where army para-military forces are helping the police to quell the violence. The police conducting searches today recovered thirtytwo illicit weapons, 15 acid cans and several knives and daggars confirming the assessment that riots were pre-planned.The additional district magistrate, Mr D S S Yadav, said that the situation was “under control” and no incident had been reported today.Fresh sporadic incidents of violence were also reported today from theoutskirts of Meerut. Cases of stabbing and arson were reported from Maliyan village.The police recovered eight bodies from Maliyan village while seven bodies were recovered from different places in the outskirts.Two bodies were recovered from Zaidi farm in Shastri Nagar.Meanwhile the Uttar Pradesh chief minister, Mr Bir Bhadur Singh, air-dashed to Ghaziabad last night and held meetings with the district authorities.According to the district authorities some people are migrating to Ghaziabad from the riot-hit Meerutcity.Mr Bir Bahadur Singh said curfew would be relaxed in rotation for some hours tomorrow in different localities of the riot-hit Meerut city.Efforts would be made to allow the Muslims to say their Id prayers in Idgah, he said.When asked about the incident in Malyana locality in which seven persons were killed and 19 injured, he said there was a clash between two communities and the police had to inter*Indrajit Gupta and Mr N. E. Balaram said in a joint statementMeerut, they said, was in the grip of “callous, bureaucratic and inefficient” administration.A , seven-member delegation representing different opposition parties in Parliament today left for Meerut to make an on-the-spot study of the situation in the riot-affected areas.The delegation consists 'of- Prof. Madhu Dandavate (Janata), Mr P. Upendra (Telugu Desam), Mr Saifud-din Chaudhary (CPM), Mr N. E. Balaram (CPI), Mr K. P. Unnikrishan (Cong.-§), Mr. Chitta Basu (Forward Bloc) and Mr Rashid Masood (Lok Dal).It was learnt later that the seven opposition M.Ps, who had gone to Meerut for an on-the-spot assessment of the situation were today arrested at Mallyana village for defying curfew regulations, according to Mr Mohammad Yunus Saieem, Lok Dal (A) Header.vene.PASSES DENIED: Meanwhile in Delhi, two CPI MPs said they were denied curfew passes when they visited Meerut on Saturday.“Our queries as to how press reporters were free to go about and publish inflammatory accounts of incidents and casualties while MPs were being discriminated against were not replied to by the district collector,” MrCPI PLAN: The Communist Party (of India today urged the Prime Minister to immediately convene a meeting <of leaders of idfferent parties to consider steps for containing the “communal conflagration” engulfing the en-Itire country.In a letter to the Prime Minister, the CPI general secretary, MrC. Rajeswara IRao, said a united political campaign 'was needed to counter the communal ipoison along with stringent adminis-ttrative measures against the mischief makers.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew, shoot orders in Cuttack cityThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 22, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Curfew, shoot orders in ■Cuttack cityThe Timet of India Newt ServiceBHUBANESWAR. Oct 2i.CURFEW was reimpoted is riot-hit Cuttack city today, following renewed clashes between two groups during curfew relaxation.	-The curfew will continue until6.30	a.m. tomorrow. The poliflb resorted to firing at Jhulashahi aad Bangla street to disperse fighting mobs. One person was injured-1[ The authorities have issued shoot-at-sight orders.	\[Official sources said from Cuttack that the situation was stiB tense and a large number of antisocial elements had been arrested. Many persons, including the DIG police, Cuttack range, were injured in stone-throwing. Some of the injured were admitted to hospital official sources said.	■These sources said there web “pitched battles in Puri Ghat add Lai Bagh, where curfew was relaxed in the morning. The images of goddess Duiga and her children — Saraswati, Lakshmi, Ganesh and Kartikeya — are still stranded Ob the old Jail Gate Road, the main centre of violence yesterday morning. Some of the images, decorated with valuable ornaments, were being guarded by the police.The chief minister, Mr Biju Pat-nailc, told reporters here that the situation in Cuttack was normal.TENSION IN KARNATAKATOWN: Tension mounted today in Hosdurg town in Karnataka’s Chitradurga district following the discovery of a carcass near a place of worship, says a Bangalore reportReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Riot-torn areas in U.P. peacefulThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 14, 1988; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Riot-torn areas in U.P. peacefulThe Times ol India News ServiceMUZAFFARNAGAR, October 13:Stray incidents Of arson and brickbatting were reported from die walled city despite curfew. It was relaxed for two hours in Khatauli from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m., when no untoward incident was reported. ■ ;Sayyed Ahmad Bukhari, 'son Ot Imam Bukhari and leader of the Adam Sena, who was coming here from Delhi, was prevented from entering the district.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Communal Clash In LucknowThe Times of India (J86J-current); Sep 24, 1950; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1LUCKNOW, Sept. 23.One person was killed and four were injured in a communal clash that occurred in the cantonment area of LucknowtndflvAmong those who received injuries are a police officer of the Cantonment Police Station and a head constable.Stones and brickbats were thrown at about 10-0 a.m. near a place of worship following the report of a cow slaughter.It was reported that a crowd that collected: near a house following the report of. a cow slaughter was fired at by someone.Some cases of stabbing also occurred and one man succumbed to Ms stab injuries in a local hospital.Four cases of arson have also been reported from the site of the incident.	-A 24-hour curfew has been damp* ed down in the affected areas.The District Magistrate, told journalists at 2 p.m. that the situation was under control.POLICE PATROLCompanies of the Provincial Armed Constabulary and anhsd police are patrolling the area.Precautionary measures have been tightened up in other peetors of the city.The District Magistrate and senior police officials rushed to the scene of occurrence immediately after the clash.A- joint conference of military, police and district officials was held at the Cantonment Police Station to take stock of the situation and discuss measures for maintaining law and order.	.	6OFFICIAL VERSION VThe communique adds: “This morning, on Bakr-Ifi day, information was received at the Cantonment Police Station that a crowd had collected in front of a house becausenn ainroTy,r mt *«* beensacrificed there. .	- — /®fficer- immediately rdsiied to the spot and searched building.- He found no trades' of cow sacrifice, but, in spita the assurances, to the contrary, the nob remained defiant and started •browing brickbats causing ifijurieg :o some persons, including the station officer, a head constable and a constable. :	:	;	; ;. ,“Simultaneously, crowds collected at two other places in the • vicinity • and the members of one community used fire-arms from the house-tops at three different places; Meanwhile, stabbing and strays assaults started and five cases of arson took place within the same' area.IMPOSITION OF“Effective measures were taken, curfew was imposed in the affected areas and the trouble was localised. The situation was soon brought under control. Sixty-seven persons have been arrested so far, including the three men with the guns that are alleged to have been used earlier.The ; District Magistrate* told journalists that one of the inspiring features in -the atmosphere of the communal riot was that there were many Hindus in the locality who came out spontaneously from their houses and gave shelter to Muslim men and women. He added **»* the incidents of arson, stabbihgs and firing had taken/place within 15 minutes. The police immediately, rushed to the spot and brought the situation under control.More than 100,000 Muslims offer-e*d prayers in more than two score mosques in Lucknow on the occasion of Id today. Meals were served near the three big mosques and Hindus in large numbers ntfendoHReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Shiv Jayanti rally stoned in ThaneThe Times of India (J86J-current); May 2, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 5Shiv Jayanti rally stoned in ThaneTHANE, May 1 (UNI): Seven people, including a police officer and three contables, were injured when a group threw stones at a Shiv Jayanti procession at Chinchani, about 100 km from here last evening, the police said today.The injured have been hospitalised and 16 people were arrested.The district collector, Mr Bhaskar Patil, promulgated till May 15 prohibitory orders in Chinchani, Tarapur and Palghar all places within a distance of 30 km. ,The trouble started when a 400 strong procession, which was on its way to Tarapur from Chinchani. a distance of five km, accompanied by music, dance and bursting of crackers, was objected to by residents of the area when it neared a place of worship.When the processionists did not heed the objection, some people gathered and hurled stones at them which, according to the police, was retaliated by some members of the procession.Jalgaon (TOINS): Six persons, including a police inspector and a constable, were injured when a mob threw stones on a Shiv Jayanti procession at . Hingona, in Yawal tehsil, on Thursday, according to reports received here.The police rounded up 35 persons after senior officials rushed to the scene.Shiv Jayanti was observed in Jalga'on district yesterday and grand processions were arranged for the occasion.Witness plea admittedBy A Staff ReporterBOMBAY, May 1. Mr Justice S.W. Puranik of the Bombay high court has admitted a writ petition filed by a pancha (prosecution witness) alleging that a case in the sessions court was causing him “mental tension and torture.”Mr Puranik also passed an interim order staying the sessions court proceedings in the case, in which five persons have been charged with abetting the robbery of a .38 service revolver from a police constable at the Oval Maidan on November 28, 1982.Qiiras Koresh Kujur acted as a pancha when the revolver was recovered from one of the accused, Babubhai Jamnadas Rana. In Septem-■ ber, 1986, Kujur was summoned by the additional sessions judge, Mr Nerurkar, to attend the court and give evidence. 'The recording of evidence began on September 26,1986, and has continued since then on every working day, the petition contends. The evidence in examination-in-chief was recorded in about 35 pages, and thereafter the cross-examination began, the petition said.Kujur has stated that he was employed as a clerk in a travel agency, but since his employer did not grant him leave for appearing in court, he has lost his job.The cross-examination, Kujur said, had run into hundreds of pages and the questions put to him by the defence lawyers of Rana were “irrelevant for the purpose of the inquiry” and yet the questions have been allowed and taken on record.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Shoot orders in KanpurThe Times of India (1861-current); Dec 11, 1992; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1COUNTRYWIDE TOLL 950Shoot ordersNEW DELHI, December 10.COMMUNAL frenzy has claimed 950 lives so far across the country, with shoot-at-sight orders issued today in all the police station areas of curfew-bound Calcutta following fresh outbreak of violence triggered by the demolition of the Bahri mnsnue in Ayodhya on Sunday, reports PTI.However, barring a few places, the overall situation in various riot-hit areas showed signs of improvement.The widespread violence in Uttar Pradesh worsened today claiming 40 more lives — twenty-five in Kanpur where a shoot-at-sight order came in force — taking the toll in the state to 151.Besides Kanpur, stepped-up incidents of arson, stabbing, group clashes were reported from Varanasi, Rampur and Ghaziabad.Violence, rioting and looting spread to the suburbs, including Naubasta, Barra, Juhi andKidwainagar, in Kanpur. At least 20 people, including seven members of a family, were killed in theselocalities.Five bodies were earlier recovered from different localities of the city in the morning, the police said.The district magistrate, Mr R. S. Srivastava, described the situation as “worsening” and said the administration was running short of forces and sought more security personnel.CALCUTTA TENSE: Shoot-at-sight orders were issued today in all the 35 police station areas of curfew-bound Calcutta, with the army taking control in six areas, as seven people were killed in fresh violence, arson and police firing, which took the toll to 16 in West Bengal.The chief minister, Mr Jyoti Basu, held an emergency meeting with the army commander at Writers’ Building to review the overall situation.GUJARAT TOLL 220: In one of the most gruesome incidents in Gujarat, 22 passengers travelling in the Surat-Nandurbar passenger (Continued on Page 9)Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.Shoot orders in Kanpur(Continued from Page 1)were lynched at Navagam village in Surat district and 13 more bodies were recovered by the police from the riot-tom Surat city this morning, taking the death roll to 220.While the situation in Ahmedabad, Baroda and many curfew-bound towns was fast improving, communal elements continued to play havoc in Surat city and district.DELHI PEACEFUL: The residents of the curfew-bound areas of New Delhi today got a two-hour reprieve which passed off peacefully, the police said.The police reviewed the situation in the morning and relaxed curfew in phases for a period of two hours each in various parts of the walled city and north-east area of Seelampur and Jafarabad.The relaxation of curfew in Jama Masjid area was from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. It passed off peacefully.CUTTACK RIOTS: Violence Continued unabated and spread to new areas in riot-ravaged Cuttack city in Orissa today. Five people were injured, two seriously, in an explosion in the Machhuabazar area as they were making bombs.The district authorities, who re-laxed curfew for two hours till noon today, rcimposed the restriction in live thickly-populated police station areas which will be in force till 7 a.m. tomorrow.Despite the shoot-at-sight orders still being in force, a large number of incidents, including arson, looting and group clashes, occurred in different parts of the city during the day.ASSAM UNDER CONTROL:The overall situation in Assam was reported to be tense but under control today even as the toll rose to 76 with recovery of more dead bodies.Curfew was still in force in some of the troubled areas as a precautionary measure. Army jawans were guarding sensitive places for the third day today to prevent any untoward incident.CURFEW LIFTED. Three more people were killed in Rajasthan today, taking the toll to 46 while sporadic incidents of clashes' were reported from different parts1 of the state.Meanwhile, the 24-hour-long curfew, clamped yesterday in Jaipur, was lifted this morning.M.P. TOLL 82: The toll in group clashes and police firing in various parts of Madhya Pradeshrose to 82 today, with the state capital accounting for 62.As the violence spread to some parts of new Bhopal, curfew was clamped in areas under three police stations last evening. The situation in the old city improved with the army conducting house-to-house searches, the police said.BIHAR IMPROVES: The situ-r ation in Bihar improved today though four more deaths were reported from difleent parts of the state taking the toll to 13.Curfew was relaxed at Ranchi, Darbhanga and Patna and no untoward incident was reported-KARNATAKA TOLL 52: The toll in the communal trouble sweeping parts of Karnataka has risen to 52 with six lives lost since last night in police firing and stabbing. Barring a few incidents of violence, the state remained peaceful today.The army had been moved into Mysore, Chitradurga, Mangalore and Davangere as stand-by to assist police in maintenance of law and order.A.P. PEACEFUL: The situation in the riot-hit curfew-bound Hyderabad and in other parts of Andhra Pradesh was by and large'nearefnlReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Spate of arson, rioting in TrivandrumThe Times of India (1861-current); Dec 31, 1982; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1;	TRIVANDRUM,.. December 30 ,(UNI & PTI).1 ‘ •T’HE police opened fire to dis-A perse a violent mob in the Kerala capital tonight as arson and rioting broke out in the wake of a state-wide’hartal called by some Muslim organisations to protest against yesterday’s firing on an Id day procession in AUetJoev;' The army has' been called ou “ to assist the civil authorities ir Trivandrum to maintain law an< order in the wake 1 of riots, th< chief minister, Mr. Karunak&ran announced tonight.In a broadcast over the Trivandrum station of All India Radio, Mr. Karu-nakarap appealed’ to the, people to co-operate fully with the civil and military authorities “to put down lawlessness with a firm hand.” .Units of the army, meanwhile, had already arrived’ at the city! police con-trol room and were being deployei in sensitive areas in the city.The government had declared , holiday tomorrow for all govern ment offices in the city.While Alleppey itself was quiel transport services in many parts o the stale were disrupted by protest ers who set up roadblocks and ston ed vehicles.The situation was worst in • Trivan drum city arid its suburbs, where seve ral houses, shops and vehicles wen set on fire during the day. Trivan drum’s airport was paralysed for somi time due to mob action.The government asked the polici to , act firmly to restore order in the capital after the day-long violence .ant arson showed not let up this evening What began as a closure of shops in protest against. Tuesday’s police firing in Alleppey in which one person was killed erupfed ipto violence with mobs -paralysing traffic by setting up road blocks and indulging iri arson which gutted several shops, vehicles and houses.	.<The government had initially instructed the police to show maximum restraint in dealing with protest 'de-monstrations but as violence spreac to more areas, the police were asked to take firm action.Alleppey town itself remained calm today after two days of violence, blit normal life was disrupted in’ Cochin city and the neighbourhood With shops arid business1 establishments closed and buses and other vehicular traffic . off the roads.In Trivandrum city, the busy East Fort area was the worst affected, a large number of petty shops were burned down.At least two hotels, three lorries, two cars and several other vehicles, including two belonging to the Vik-ram Sarabhai space centre, became the target of mob fury.Tension prevailed for several hours in , Enchakal area : where a' group of people raided a house and set fire to the building and a car. A couple of other houses were also i set on fire in the area.In the East Fort area, a traffic police Station was, burned; down by the mob.City and mofussil bus services stop-ped plying after mobs put up road blocks. .Huge boulders and uprooted hoardings were piled up by some demonstrators at the secretariat gate. The police removed the obstructions later.	’	'Meanwhile, the Kerala deputy chief minister and Indian Union Muslim League leader, Mr. C. H. Mohammed Koya, today appealed, to the members of his community to maintain peace in the state.	'In a statement, he said everyone should help the government in maintaining peace and not engage in “meaningless protest demonstrations” over the Alleppey incident. ’Mr. Koya said he was issuing this statement as some people were trying to make1 political capital but of the Alleppey incident, which, he described as “most, unfortunate.” ,He pointed out that the government had ,granted financial relief to the family of the person killed. A judicial inquiry had also been ordered, besides suspending some police of*! ficials. The interests of the minorities;Continued on Page 9 Column 1Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.Army called out r in TrivandrumContinued front Page 1 Column 5were safe in the hands of the Muslim League ministers, he said.. Meanwhile, talks were going on in Cochin between the leaders of various political parties, including the Muslim League, to restore peace in the state . :	'Cttv and mofussil bus services of the Kerala State Road Transport Cor- ‘ poration (K.SRTC) remained suspend-. cd since this morning f olio win gs tonethrowing at buses and erection of . road blocks, Several 'buses were damaged in the stone-throwing, a KSRTC spokesman said,	•'Reports received here said total hartal was observed in Tirur, Tirupam-gadi, Parappanagadi f and: Cannanbre in the Malabar region. :	vy: Groups of Muslim demonstrator^ set ablaze a staff bus of the lndikn Space Research Organisation (1SRO) and two private lorWes at Eerijackal in the city.-Two automobile^ work-: shops were also set ablaze.' y ;Most shops in the . city were ,forcibly closed by the demonstrators^who roamed about in groups/:A Cochin report satd bus'■ sdmees,: in Alwaye, Perumbavoor ,a[nd some, parts of Ernakulam came to 'a . still this morning. Three passengers;' were injured when an A$T bus was 1 stoned at Edapally. One of them, who was injured seriously, was admitted to hospital.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿U. S. FUNDS FOR WORLD RELIEFThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jan 23, 1951; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1U. S. FUNDS FOR WORLD RELIEF Plea By Mr. WallaceBOSTON, January 22:	Mr. HenryWallace, former Vice-President, favours a 10,000-million dollars a year American relief programme for the whole world as an alternative to war. He urged this at a community Church meeting here last night.It would not be appeasement but a peace measure, he said. The money should be spent through the United Nations for all people of all nations— but with conditions. The Iron Curtain countries would have to agree to a programme of disarmament, ‘‘park the atom bombs”, discontinue fifth column activities and help build a U. N. police force stronger than the armed might of any individual nation.He would have the money spent on specific dams, roads, bridges, electrification of towns and farms, irrigation ditches and fertiliser factories in definite places. '	'“All the high Communists are materialists,” he said They are for sale if the offer is high enough.”—P.T.I.-Reuter.CURFEW IN TOWN NEAR HYDERABAD 14 Injured In ClashHYDERABAD, January 22: Curfew has been imposed in Jalna, a town in north-west Hyderabad, following a clash between members of two communities yesterday, according to a report received here today. Fourteen persons were injured in the clash, it is stated. The hoisting of a flag by members of a community|was objected to bv members of the other group, thus resulting in a clash.— P.T.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew in Delhi, Meerut calmThe Times of India (1861-current); Jul 25, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9NPW npl HI Tiifv 54INDEFINITE curfew was today clamped on die sensitive areas of he ,tailed city ofDelhi as a necautionary measure in view of he .fresh incidents of violence inThte curfew imposed at 11 a.m. was not relaxed. “We will review the situ* ation tomorrow morning,” a senior police official said. ;No Untoward incident was reported from any of the cutfew-bound areas and people were allowed to offer Friday prayers in mosques. * v Prohibitory order under section 144 CriP.C was also invoked with inunedi-atb>ffect under the ponce statktosof Chandni Mahal, Hauz Quaa and Jama Masjid and parts of Chtindni Chowk and Farashkhana areas.Some areas of the walled city were Blre^ under nighfcurfew since May 19 following incidents of violence whiCT’llairtied 10 liveic:Addressing a cOhgr^fkrt^at the lama'Masjid, the Indtfn efdlOd .upon the people to maidiajtt communal harmony and be cautiotisqfdjstoptive forces which were benftiip^n {disturbing peace not only in thecapita!,.but also in manypam of the country.The Times of India, New Service adds: The supreme court today issued notices to the Uttir Pradesh government and its various administrative agencies asking them tc^show cause why a writ petition filed in “public interest” on the Meerut riots should not be admitted.Mr Justice Raneanath Mishra and Mr Justice M. M. Dutt issued thenotices on a wm petition iiiea oy wePeople’s Union for Democratic Rightsseeking directions for the payment of exemplary damages to all those affected during the riots between May 19 and 28 in the Hashimpura area of Meerut •	\According to the petition, a large, number of persons were either killed or seriously injured during the riots. Properties were damaged in what the, petition described as “state violence and inhuman treatment meted out by the Provincial Armed Constabulory.Such actions by the state govern*, mentor its PAC wherein violation of articles 14, 19, 21 and 22 of the constitution, the petition added.CALM SITUATION (PTI from Meerut): No untoward incident Was reported from any part ofMeerutasno curfew relaxation was given in several areas of the city rocked by violence following the killing of eigtht bus passengers near here yesterday. ,The additional district magistrate said the city remained peaceful.and the Shivratri festival -passed off without any incident with ^devotees offering Ganges water in various temples. >. He said intensive patrolling by the PAC and the army was continuing in the sensitive areas and elaborate secur* ity arrangements were made to prevent disturbances during the Friday prayer.In some areas,the day curfew was relaxed from 4 a.m. to 10 p.m.Troops called out yesterday following the violence would continue to assist the authorities in maintaining law and order.Giving details of the preliminary inquiry on the killing, the Meerutdivisional commissioner said the ill* feted!#IbeUftd	Bijndre was; fere*ibty diverted from its route by some 20 persons who boarded it here. <He said tbey took it towards Vaked-pur village where a crowd was wajHting. The miscreants got'info the bus and began assaulting members of a particular community.	v 'Some of them were dogged out and lynched. Five people died on the spot, twodieji at the medical college here andonernBijnbre. Threewomen were among the victims. ».The crowd alro tried to intercept two buses of the Rajasthan Road Transport Corporation but failed.A rtjxM from Musaffaroagar said that security measures have been tightened in the district ‘BANDH PEACEFUL (TOINS from Srinajgar):-Barring *tay incidents, the bandh throughout the valley Called to protest against the killings of bus passengers near Meerut passed off peacefully today.	t• The bandb call had been. given jointly by the ruling alliance.?of the National Conference (F) and the Congress. .'	. • :	.	. , .., Banks and government offices, both state and Central functioned nonhally. However, educational institutions remained closed and barring autorickshaws, all public transport stayed off the roads.. In a statement, the chairman of the Awami Action Committee, Mirwaiz Mohammed Farooq, condemned the “barbarous act and urged the Centre to control such killings. He also demanded the dismissal of the U.P. governmentReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Toll in Gujarat rises to 34The Times of India (1861-current); Nov 1, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1AHMEDABAD, Oct. 31 (UNI).IN a fresh bout of communal frenzy in Gujarat, at least 11 people were killed today, taking the death toll in two days of violence to 34. Troops fanned out to all strategic points in Ahmedabad and indefinite curfew was imposed in Godhra town of the eastern district ot Panchmahals.- People belonging to different communities clashed in this textile city in the afternoon at Juhapura, Vasna, Shahpur, Khanpur, Paldi and Satellite Road. Large-scale looting, arson and stabbing was reported in the juhapura area. The police fired manyshots resulting in the death of at least four people.However, the chief secretary of the state government, Mr H.K. Khan said that the death toll in two days of violence was only 24.Mr Khan said that indefinite curfew had to be imposed on Godhra town this morning following incidents of looting, arson and attack on a place of worship and a police chowki. He said that two persons were injured in police firing and some people, including three policemen, were injured there.Godhra is the seventh town in the(Continued on page 3)Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.11 more killed inGujaratContinued from Page 1state to be put under indefinite curfew. The others are Ahmedabad, Baroda, Bharuch, Jamjodhpur, Padra and Halol. Four other towns of north Gujarat — Modasa, Palanpur, Deesa and Dhanera — are under night curfew.Mr Khan said that areas under 14 of the total 22 police stations inAhmedabad. city, covering an estimated population of more than 1.5 million, were placed under curfew.the situation in Ahmedabad city remained relatively peacefijl after the deployment of the army, except for some sporadic, incidents of looting, and arson late last night and early this morning.One person was shot dead at Hali-mni Khadki in the Shahpur area late last night and a printing press was set ablaze in the Shahpur mill compound, the police said.The police had to fire seven rounds to quell the clashing groups at Hali-mni Khadki and Jobbed teargas shells at Shahpur mill compound.The troops have taken positions at all strategic points to stem violence in the city.The situation in Baroda city remained peaceful and under control after yesterday evening. No major incident was reported from here the police said. All areas under the four police stations were placed under indefinite curfew. The army had also staged a flag march in the disturbed areas yesterday.Sixty-two people wounded in fir-■ ing, stabbing, stoning and acid-throwing incidents, had been admitted toviolenceti e Sir Sayaji General Hospital in Bjaroda tilt this morning.A Surat report said that the police rounded up 375 persons, including the BJP city unit vice-president, Mr Vasant Desai, and three councillors of the party. Last night, police burst a rout 20 shells to disperse mobs indulging in arson and blocking of r >ads in the city’s Rampura area, aids PTI.Mr Khan said that in Ahmedabad a one more than 280 shots were fired b y the police in the last two days and r lore than 900 people were arrested. He said that 90 of them were sted under the Terrorist and Dis-ptive Activitiestprevention) Act. A rge number of weapons were revered from different places in the tty, he said.To a question, the chief secretary id that as of today, curfew would main in force in the city till Friday vening, and thereafter it would be taxed in a phased manner after riodically reviewing the situation.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Dusk-to-dawn Curfew Clamped On Silchar: MASS ARSON IN RURAL AREAS REPORTEDThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jun 22, 1961; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of Indiapg. 1Dusk-to-dawn Curfew Clamped On Silchar“The Times of India” News Service,	SHILLONG, June 21.A 7 p.m. to 5 a.m. curfew was clamped today on Silchar town, ^ headquarters of Cachar District. The district authorities said they apprehended clashes.Some houses in the Mohan-garh tea estate in the Silchar sub-division were burnt today.Tension prevails in the whole of Cachar District.Ten persons were killed in the disturbances in Hailakandi town on Monday, according to an announcement of the Assam Government. The announcement said that four persons of a particular community were mur-l dered by a mob while they were re*( turning to Hailakandi in a truck., The Deputy Commissioner of ' Cachar informed the Government , headquarters here today that 200 ! houses had been burnt in the Haila-| kandi sub-division,Commenting on Monday’s incidents , in Hailakandi, the Agricultural Minister, Mr. M. H. Chowdhury, said that some peaceful processionists were allegedly attacked without provocation. This led to violence, “which 1 condemn. He added that all the ten I persons killed belonged to a particular ; community. :Silchar: Reports of mass arson and looting in rural areas and tea gardens ; in the Hailakandi sub-division since the- incident at Hailakandi town on • June 19 were pouring in, according i to official sources. These reports in-1 dicate that a section of people, in-■ eluding tea garden employees, were rendered homeless as a result of this incident.1 Several hundreds ot distressed peo-; Pie, including women and children, have already arrived at Silchar town.. State transport buses have been sent ’ to bring the homeless people stranded on their way to the town.—P.T.I.See page 9Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Shoot-at-sighi in FaizabadThe Times of India (J86J-current); Oct 26, 1988; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1Shoot-at-sighi in FaizabadLUCKNOW. October 25 (UNI).THE district administration issued shoot-at-sight orders to deal with the rioters in curfew-bound Faizabad which remained peaceful today.The situation “is calm and quiet”, in the town with no incident reported during the past . 24 hours, the homeawciaiy, mi oaiu i\.umar tnpatni, told newsmen here this evening.Heavy patrolling by the provincial arms constabulary (PAC) and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) is continuing, he added.A total of 250 persons had' been rounded up„While the police put the toll in the four days of violence at six, the home secretary asserted that only five people had been killed.Jamshedpur (UNI): The district ad-1 ministration today lifted curfew in (he Mango area where 16 people were killed in a stampede on October 20 after the police resorted to lathi-charge on the devotees witnessing the immersion of goddess Durga on the Mango bridge.	'The Border Security Force was still patrolling vulnerable areas of the steel city.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew continues in SuratThe Times of India (J86J-current); Apr 23, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1Curfew continuesmSuratSURAT, April 22 (UNI); One person was stabbed to death around midnight last night in the curfew-bound Athva lines police station area of the city.	'However, no other incident was reported from the curfew-bound area today even as indefinite curfew continued without any relaxation.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew clamped on Indore communal clashThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jan 2, 1969; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Curfew clamped on Indore: communal clash“The Time* of India** News ServiceURFfcW was clamped on Indoretoday. following a communal clash over a funeral procession in the Ranipura-Daulatganj area.Police reinforcements were summoned from Bhopal. Ujiain and Dcwas as tension mounted. The Supetintendent of Police. Mr. Sou-mitraial Shukla. anti two policemen were injured by srones. T\Vo other injured persons were admitted to hospit-.il.A 17-hout curfew was ordered at I-IO p.m. and the fVMector later claimed that the situation was under control.Three cases ot a*-son. including one In Nayanpu»a and another in The Re.shamwala compound, were reported officially. The police rounded up 177 peoole till lafe tonight.The trouble started when the procession with the body of Avantilal Sonkar reached the Hathipala-Jawahar-marg crossing, w'herc chappals and stones were, hurled at it by members of another community.The processionists retaliated. Sonkar had died of injuries sustained in a clash between two gangs of gamblers of different communities.A piohibttory order under Section 144. Cr. P. Cwas promulgated last night as a precautionary measure following his death.The funeral procession was allowed hv the . District Magistrate on the specific understanding that the processionists would not cause any bread* of the peace.The police forced the procession to proceed to the cremation ground before the situation went out of control.According to unofficial reports, a hotel, a saloon and an egg shop were ransacked bv hooligans.INDORE. January I.PROHIBITORY ORDERReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Riots shatter peace in BhopalANIL SHARMAThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Dec 17, 1992; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 12Riots shatter peace in BhopalRv ANIL SMARM A The Times of India News ServiceBHOPAL, Dec. 16: With 107persons dead, at least 400 injured and 2,500 arrested in the aftermath of the Ayodhya mosque demolition, the usually peaceful city of Bhopal has made it to the list of communally sensitive placcs,shattering the towns’s decades-old tradition of communal harmony.The hand of the Bajrang Dal was evident in the violence and at least 175 of those arrested belonged to this (now banned) organisation.For five days after the destruction of the Babri masjid, rampaging mobs were enabled by a section of the police to drive in the communal wedge.Even the casualty figures do not tell the full talc. Of the 107 dead, only 47 fell to police bullets, the rest killed by frenzied mobs. At least 54 persons were killed and their bodies were dumped out of sight in nullahs, or under rubble.Earlier, lists of communally sensitive areas in the stale included such towns as Indore, Jabalpur, Sagar and Sehore. But this time, these towns remained peaceful. The authorities had taken adequate precaution and prohibitory orders were strictly enforced.There were clear cases of dereliction of duty in Bhopal. “Even those goonaas, who are traditionally detained before every festival, were seen roaming around, creatingtrouble,” said Shahid Khan, a resident of the old Bhopal area, which witnessed the worst carnage.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿12 injured in fresh Gujarat violenceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jul 12, 1985; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1AHMEDABAD, July 11 UNI).AT least 12- people were injured and ! shops and ; houses - setablaze as large-scale violence broke out in cur-few:bourid Dholka town in Ahmedabad district early today and in 'Patan in • Mehsana district.Ten she? itig —' fops and houses wereset oftfire in Dholka . and seven .peoplewere inju/ed —^: four . in. police .fir-rivallowing group; clashes whenothergroups, threw burning. rags. and ; missiles' ,f at one' ... another*Two police personnel were injured in' thp stone-throw.irig. . j • One person, received minor, stab | injuries in Ghodasftr village on the .outskirts of the city.;	,Meanwhile, the attendance in the schools; which reopened on Monday further improved ^ today, an official spokesman said. :	.	;The Union minister of state for health, ; Mr. Yogendra Makwana, continued his talks with government officials and striking state government employees fOr • an amicable settlement.The Akliil. Gujarat Nayarachna Siamiti welcomed, the. changes brought in the administration by, the new government.	..... ihouses; acco;din£' to official jeport: received here.......	../..... ■ ... ... The ■ arsqnists:: set fire to> shops also, the -police said, t ; ; ,■ ; ;One incident of 'private firing was Teported during the clashes' but ii was not immediately known whether any one was injured. Fifty people were arrested in connection with the incidents; The police, also .'recovered two- bombs during 'combing operations.. The .' police * fifed 25 rounds, to disperse the miscreants. Indefinite curfe.w was „ .imposed: in the town ' following these incidents.In Patari, three persons were injured' with! the' police; opened fire at a 500 .strong mob . which attacked a State Reserve Police 'picket.The Sfcyniti also appreciated • ef*; forts- being' made by; -Mr. Makwana to normalise , the situation.The forhier Union minister and Gujarat Congress leader, Mr. Hiten-; dra Desai, wiio returned here from; JDelhi aftp his meeting with Prime; Minister Rajiv Gandhi and other I leaders,said that the situation; wouldi imrtroye following a series of steps initiated by the new government Headed .by, Chief Minister -Amarsinh j Chaudhary.	■Gandhinagar* Mr. Amarsinh Chau-; dliary today announced, an ad hoc ; ex-gratia . payment to-.police person-; nel up to the rank of,deputy superintendent of police for tirelessly discharging hazardous duties during the disturbances in the state..Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿2 dead, 35 hurt: series of clashes in TirurThe Times of India (J86J-current); Dec 10, 1969; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 12 dead, 35 hurt: series of clashes in TirurKOZHIKODE, December 9. rpwO persons were killed and 35 -L injured in a series of clashes between • Jana Sangh-RSS workers and Muslim League supporters at Tirur in the newly-formed Malappuram District, about 60 kilometres from, here yesterday.After several street fights during the day, one of the two groups set fire to a cloth shop In the town as a result of which two persons were suffocated to death. About 20 others who had taken shelter in the shop however managed to jump to safety from the first floor of the shop.Official sources said that the two unfortunate victims were trapped in a room and it was too late before they were detected.Most of the injured were later admitted to the Tirur hospital,^ The police have registered a case but: no arrests have been made so far.A strong contingent of police, including some CRP men, have been posted in the trouble-tom town.Though official sources claimed that the situation was now under control, prohibitory order under Section 23 of the Kerala Police Act, banning the assembly of five or more persons and the carrying of lethal weapons, was promulgated in the town today till December 15	.Mr. Avukaderkutty Naha, Kerala Minister for Panchayats today toured the affected area and visited the injured in the hospital.—P.T.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿10 die in Gujarat violence, firingThe Times of India (J86J-current); Sep 5, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 110 die in Gujarat violence, firingThe Times of India News ServiceAHMEDABAD, September 4: At least three persons were killed and four were injured in police firing and stabbing at Anand in Kaira district this evening. The entire town has been placed under an indefinite curfew.(According to PTI, at least ten people were killed and over 24 were injured in violence and police firing in Baroda, Anand and Surat even as indefinite curfew was imposed in parts of Baroda and Anand.)The police resorted to firing when two groups clashed following stonethrowing on a religious procession near the ST depot. Two persons were killed and another was injured in the firing. One more died in stabbing while three received injuries.PTI adds: One person was stabbed to death and four were injured during the Ganpati procession in Surat.In Baroda, one person was killed and another injured when police fired two rounds to disperse clashing groups which indulged in stonethrowing against each other in the Mogalwada area of the city this evening.Tripathi in hospitalNEW DELHI, Sept. 4 (PTI): The veteran Congress leader, Mr Kamlapati Tripathi, was admitted to the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital here this evening following a mild stroke, family sources said.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew in Belgaum on fresh violenceThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 7, 1984; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9Curfew in BelgaumBANGALORE, October 6 PTI andUNO.rFHE police opened fire in the air ■ and clamped night curfew _ in Belgaum city this evening following fresh outbreak of violence, reports reaching here said.Reports said /. the police : resorted to firing when' teargas shells and lathi-charge proved futile in queiiing the crowd that indulged in stolte-throwang and brickbattlng. No one was injured in the tiring, the police said. The crowd also made* abortive attempts to set ablaze some shops. ,The. procession, planned in connection with Moharrani, was not taken /out. ■' ,	'/ '	'	:;The trouble erupted- yesterday when a man of unsound mmd descraied the sanctum sanctorum of a place of worship, forcing the police to resort to a baton charge.According to official reports received here, miscreants, mosily: youths, threw stones, at passing vehicles and attempted to set tire to a number of shops. Seven- shops were partially damaged in the arson.Ihe police chased away the miscreants by resorting to heavy lathi-charge. However, the; crowd; played hide-and-seek with the police/ and pelted them with stones. '	.Wheto ffie situation went out of control, the police tired four rounds in the air.The city witnessed	group clasheslast night when' a person eased himself in a place of worship. The police made a lathi-charge	to bring thesituation under control.a report received here.Incidents of violence -and arson were also reported from Utraula town near Gonda in U.P., as tension prevailed for the third consecutive day today.The police and PAC patrolling was further intensified and all approaches to the town sealed following an attempt by some “mischievoi^j elements'* to create trouble.The police arrested more than 50 persons in the past 24 hours, raising the number of those held in connection with the disturbances to more than 90.Meanwhile, Dussehra has noi so far been celebrated in the town owing to disturbances nor have the images of Goddess Durga been immersed. The “tazia** procession also could not be taken out for the same reasons.In Bihar, a major clash between two communities was averted at Shee-tal village, 8 km from Munger, by the timfely action of the police who fired at least six rounds in the air to disperse members of a group trying to take out a Durga immersion nrncession yesterday.The director-general of police, Mr B. N. Gurudachar, said, that over 50 people were arrested in connection with today’s violence. He said though the situation had been brought under control, an uneasy calm prevailed over the city.The police resorted to a lathi-charge to disperse a stone-throwing mob in Hubli today.Four policemen, including a deputy superintendent of police, were injured in the stone-throwing.The district superintendent of police, Mr Subha»;h Bharani, told newsmen that the trouble erupted wfien a Mo-harram procession was disrupted by some miscreants. The processionists who were carrying the ‘punja’ fell down in the. melee.CURFEW IN NAGDA: Meanwhile, a 24-hour curfew has been imposed in the industrial town of N^gda in Ujjain district from 5 a-m. today following a clash between the members of two communities last night.According to official reports received here, three people were killed and eight, including four policemen, injured in the clash .Twenty-live people have been ar. rested so far, the reports said.A two-day curfew has been clamped in Ranapur town in Jhabua district. aboJt 170 km, from Indore, since last night following heavy etone-throwing by an irate mob on the police in which 24 people, including a sub-divisional officer and 17 police personnel, were injured, according 0Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Riots spark row in J &amp; K houseThe Times of India (1861-current); Aug 18, 1988; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 9'SRINAGAR, August 17 (UNI).Tu HE hoisting of Pakistani flags in downtown city in the past two days sparked off uproanous scenes in'the Jammu and Kashmirassembly today,Mr Mir Mustafa (Independent), alongwith the Muslim United Front (MUF) legislators, repeatedly interrupted the chief minister, Dr Farooq Abdullah, who intervened to say that some pro-Pakistani elements were responsible for hoisting the flags in the .-city on August 15.Mr Mustafa shouted at top of hisvoice ana neia me i^emrai government responsible for trouble. The speaker, Mirza Abdul Jashid, and the ruling party members took serious exception to this.Some other unparliamentary remarks uttered by Mr Mustafa were later expunged by the speaker, who warned Mr Mustafa that he would order his expulsion.Mr Mustafa late walked out of the house, shouting that he did not know why his remarks were being expunged.He, however, entered the house after the 20-minute-long pandemonium was over. Earlier, Dr Abdullah asked why black and Pakistani flags were being hoisted in the jurisdiction of leaders who called themselves Indians.He told the legislators that hoisting of the flags by a handful of antinational elements had defamed the people of Kashmir. The opposition raised an uproar over these remarks.The chief minister defended the national press when Syed Ali Shah Geelani (MUF) blamed it for creating a bad image outside the state.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿2 suspended over Saharanpur riotsThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Apr 1, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 72 suspended overSaharanpur riotsThe Times of India News ServicLUCKNOW, March 31: The iaharanpur district magistrate, Mr lari Krishan, and the ASP, Mr. hranjan Lai, have been suspended or dereliction of duty in connection dth the riots which claimed nine ives in the district recently.A government spokesman said oday that the action had been taken ftcr it was found that the communal larc-up could have been avoided had he two officials taken immediate teps to tackle the situation.The government has instituted an nquiry which will be conducted by he Meerut divisional commissioner, Ax J.N. Ranjan, in the case of Mr Crishan. The probe against Mr Lai las been entrusted to the inspector-;cneral of police, Mr V.K. Mathur. during their suspension, both the rring officials will remain in Meerut, he spokesman added.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿U. S. to aid Afghan rebels directlyThe Times of India (J86J-current); Sep 4, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1WASHINGTON, SEPTEMBER 3 (tJNI): In a major reversal of their ten-year-old war policy, the U.S. and Pakistan have cut financial assistance and arms supplies to the seven Peshawar-based Afghan rebel parties and are attempting to deliver guns and money directly to guerilla commanders and tribal leaders insideWashington Post quoting diplomatic and rebel sources, says the new strategy aims at reducing the infighting among the Mujahideens within Afghanistan and also to check the influence of the most extreme Islamic fundamentalist leaders.It quotes some officials to say that the new approach will lead to broaden political support for the rebels and increased military effectiveness.MOSCOW, September 3 (PTI): At least 85 people, 14 of them civilians, have been killed in the last 24 hours in rebel rocket attacks on Kabul and the army retaliation against them in Kfiost district, reports here said today.'' fourteen civilians were killed and nearly 60 wounded when the rebels fired missiles at a crowded market in Kabul yesterday, Radio Moscow said.The Jalalabad garrison carried out an operation to clear Sorhurd district of rebels, killing 13 of them and wounding 17.Alert as 3 die in Bihar clashesRANCHI, Sept 3 (UNI): An alert has been sounded in Chotanagpur after three people were killed and Several injured in a clash between two groups at Sabarwa in Palmau district yesterday, official reports here said today.' Four shops were looted during the clash which was a sequel to a dispute Over the demolition of the boundary wall of a religious place in the town.The south Chotanagpur deputy inspector-general of police and the police superintendent were campaing in the area, the reports said.Additional forces have been deployed to prevent any further incidents. ■<U.S. to aid Afghan rebels directlyistan.85 die in Afghan fightingReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Minority victims at JalgaonA Staff ReporterThe Times of India (1861-current); Jun 27, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 3Minority victims at JalgaonBy A Staff ReporterBOMBAY. June 26: The government admitted in the legislative assembly today that most of the victims of the recent riot in Kasoda in Jalgaon district belonged to the minority community.A Congress member from the constituency. Mrs Parutai Wagh. joined theCPI member, Mr Madhavrao Gaikwad. in holding the communal organisations, the Vishwa Hindu Par-ishad and Patit Pavan Sanghtana. responsible for the attacks.Mrs Wagh said the atrocities would shame terrorist acts in Punjab and that the guilty had still not been arrested. The minister of state for home. Mr J.T.	Mahajan. who hails from Jalgaon district, said some of the suspects had sought anticipatory bail. In response to Mrs Wagh's demand for a ban on the communal organisations, he said this was not possible.Mr Gaikwad said the riot was not a result of a clash between two com-munilies as claimed by the government. It was a onc-sidcd attack by the Vishwa Hindu Parishad on selectedtargets.The deputy speaker. Dr Padamsing Patil. called upon members not to “pour oil on fire.”Mr Ram Naik of the BJP objected to describing the VHP as a communal organisation as it represented the ma-joritv Hindu community. The Hindus, he said, would no longer meekly suffer assaults from others.The minister admitted that all the 72 houses and a mojority of 50 shops burni in the riots belonged to the minority community.Mrs Wagh said the town had been peaceful till the Hindu communal organisations came on the scene.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿24 die, 200 hurt in firing &amp; violenceThe Times of India (1861-current); Aug 14, 1980; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1MORADABAD, August 13(PTI).AN indefinite curfew was imposed and army called out here today following widespread violence and police firing which left at least 24 people, including six children, dead and about 200 injured.The trouble Was officially stated to have erupted following a clash between the police and members of the minority community.A judicial inquiry has been ordered into the incidents. Police reinforcements have Tushed to the town.Unofficial reports put the death roll higher.had asked two of his -senior cabinet colleagues, Mr. Abdul Rehman Hash-tar and Mr. Jagdish Prasad, to go to Moradabad immediately for an on-the-spot study and to help the authorities in controlling the situation.	•The chief minister said some members of the minority community indulged in violence, set' on fire a police outpost and looted arms from policemen on duty. Several police officials had received stone and stab injuries and one policeman was missing,. he said. .	! aThe senior superintendent of police,Mr. Vijayanath, received head injuries in stone-throwing.Ten companies of the PAC have already moved in to strengthen the local police and the DIG police training, college- here has taken charge of the town to maintain order. The DIG Bareilly range; and the divisional commissioner have, also reached here.Even after the curfew was imposed, incidents of violence continued to be reported. There. were V also. several cases pf /firing from rooftops.Si5£ty-e>%Iat people have been admitted to various hospitals, in the town.	■3	PAC MEN KILLEDIt was officially stated that the presence of a stray animal near Idgah where Muslims had gathered to offer Id prayers irked the crowd and brickbats were thrown at the police. Somepne in the crowd opened fire, killing three -APAC personnel and injuring several others.The violence spread and a number of- shops were set on. fire. Several cases of, stabbing were also reported from different- parts of; the town. _ Briefing newsmen in Lucknow in the evening, the chief minuter, Mr. Vishwanath Pratap SingLt, .said, “the situation- was under control.” HeIn Delhi,' a spokesman of the Border Security Force said fotir battalions of the BSF had been sent to Moradabad to help the district authorities in controlling the situation,The Central Reserve Police have also been stationed in Moradabad.In Delhi, five people received injuries in a clash between two groups at Imamia Hall near Panchkuian Road.There was an exchange of aerated water bottles, bricks and other missiles before the police intervened and brought the situation ;■ under control. The police arrested 36 people from both sides on charges of‘rioting andcausing injuries.The dispute was over the possession of a tea stall within the premises of Imamia Hall. About 200 people after offering; morning prayers gathered at the stall asking .the owner to move out. They cited a court order to press their claim, There was aq, altercation as the tea-stall owner refused to oblige them.Jamnagar (UNI): A man and bis young son were stabbed , to death when two groups clashed at Salaya Port, 65 km, from here on Wednesday morning.According tn the police, the victims were goinu to offer Id prayers, when five people intercepted them in the bazar area. A hot exchange of words followed, which soon turned into a fierce-clash,One (pf the fivPsutfehflerad ttr the-pPlicii>f.1iiPh& with a., fchlfh.. Mi&bd ;to:,.hdyd: b&h used in the clash> the. police Said,Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Day curfew relaxed in HyderabadThe Times of India (J86J-current); Sep 26, 1984; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 7Day curfewrelaxed in HyderabadHYDERABAD, September 25 (UNI): Day curfew was relaxed in all 26 police station limits of Hyderabad today and barring two stray stabbing incidents the city remained calm, '	.Curfew was relaxed between 6 and 10 a.m. in 23 police station limits* and between 3 and 6 p.m. in the . other three sensitive police station limits .of Kamatipura, Mangalhat and Hussaini Alum, There was no report of any untoward incident dur* ' ing the relaxed hours from the three sensitive areas.	’One person who went to purchase . essential commodities in-the curfew-bound Tappachabutra police station • limits and a pedestrian in Lakdi Kapul in a non-curfew area were stabbed. They were admitted to Osmania General Hospital.A ration shop was partially destroyed in arson last night at Kishan: Bag and; the shop owners house was stoned.	‘The police arrested five people . near a place of worship for, spreading disaffection and rumours last night. :	,	'The home , minister, Mr Venkata* rama Joggiah, said police sleuths were trying to identify the culprits keeping alive the tension in order to » blame the government that it had ‘failed to maintain law and order.• • , ■  . •; ■ , , ■India, protests to Pakistan'. ISLAMABAD, September 25 (PTI): The Indian embassy today protested agaiiist the raising of the “Kashmir issue’'’ at an inter-, national Islamic seminar which was inaugurated by the Pakistan president Gen Zia-ul-Haq.The Indian charge d’affaires, Mf S Sbashank told the Pakistan fo« reign office that such actions could only vitiate the climate for normalisation of relations between thetwo countries.	;The seminar, organised by the ~ Motamar Al Aalam Al Aislami world Muslim Congress recommended that the people of Jammu and Kashmir should be allowed to exercise the right of self determination in accordance with the deci* sion of the United Nations on this subject.AP assembly proroguedHYDERABAD, September 25 (PTI); The Andhra Pradesh assembly session, which began on September 11, was today prorogued by the governor, Dr S. D. Sharma.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Namaz plan goes awryThe Times of India News Service and aganciesThe Times of India (1861-current); Jan 1, 1993; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1BABRI ACTIVISTS CLASH WITH POLICENaniaz plan goes awryimes of India News Service the PAr WBQ \A/11 h H tq \i;n	fVvf	A	In a mini ctotAmAnt tn/IThe Times of India News Service and agenciesFAIZABAD, Dedembcr 31.SEVERAL people iverc injured today when the police lathi-charged a mob that broke its cordon, defying prohibitory orders, to march towards Ayodnya to ofTer a symbolic namaz. The mob was stopped from proceeding towards the disputed site.Over 3,500 Muslims courted arrest. Indefinite curfew has been clamped in the twin cities of Faizabad and Ayodhya. A large crowd had assembled here at the Idgah where the all India Babri Masjid Action Committee (AIB-► Picture onPage 11MAC) leaders were to addressthem. A group broke away andRakabganjproceeded towards area. It turned violent land indulged in brickbat-throwing when it was stopped by the police. The members of the other community re taliated when the mob damaged some vehicles parked At least eight persons in the clash between munities.At the Idgah, thb provincial armed constabulaiy had to resort to a milthe PAC was withdrawn.Youngsters, who outnumberec the elders, at the Idgah were in < defiant mood and the AIBMAC leaders had a tough time control! ing them. They were unwilling tc court arrest and instead insisted or continuing the march to Ayodhya to ofTer nazam. Ignoring theii leaders’ pleas to court.arrest peacefully to assert their right over the disputed site, they broke the police cordon.Initially it was planned that 313 AIBMAC leaders would court arrest. The number was significant as Prophet Muhammed had won thefor the third day today.The district president of the Babri Masjid Action Committee, Mr Mohammed Yunus Siddiqui, in a memorandum to the Prime Minister said since 1950 the disputed structure in Ayodhya “has been described as mosque” and said it was the right of the Muslims to offer “namaz” in a mosque.In Hyderabad the- AIBMAC president, Sultan Salahuddin Owaisi, MP condemned today’s lathi-charge on Muslims.In a strongly worded statement here, Mr Owaisi charged the Uttar Pradesh administration withon the road, were injured he two com-(PAC) men lathi-charge.Three PAC vans were damaged and several persons injured in the stone-pelting and lathi-charge. The agitated crowd demanded the withdrawal of the PAC force. The situation cooled down only afterfirst battle at Badar (Jang-e-Badar) with 313 soldiers. However, because of the large turn-out at the gathering they could not stick to their plan.Prominent AIBMAC leaders, who courted arrest were Mr Azam Khan, Mr Zafaryab Jilani, Mr Shafiqur Rehrqan Birq and Maulana Hussain. The Naib Imam of Delhi’s Jama Masjid, Syed Ahmed Bukhari, who had left Lucknow this afternoon to offer namaz in Ayodhya was intercepted at Barabanki and sent back to Delhi.Meanwhile, the indefinite fast by sadhus and saints in Ayodhya to press their demand for the darshan of deities of Ram lalla continuedIn a joint statement today, the BJP leaders warned that by making such statements, the government would invite “disastrous consequences”.Mr Khurana and Prof Malhotra said that in the wake of the statement made by the home minister “fanatic” Muslim leaders were inciting the Muslims for offering prayers at the Ram janmasthan and were going to Ayodhya by forming jathas.The BJP leaders said no such prayers have been offered at the disputed site since 1936. The court had imposed a restriction on this and the entrv of Muslims into theadopting an “anti-Muslim stance”. The administration had not ordered the police and the security forces to use tear gas shells or resort to lathi charge when the Babri masjid was being demolished on December 6 last. This was yet another positive proof of their antiMuslim stance, he alleged.In New Delhi, the secretary of the Bharatiya Janata Party, Mr Madan Lai ljUiurana, and prof Vijay Kumar Malhotra today condemned the statement of the home minister, Mr S. B. Chavan, saying that permission could be granted for offering prayers by the Muslims at the disputed site at Ayodhya.disputed area was prohibited, they said.On the other hand, the leaders said puja was being done at the Ram janmasthan since 1949. This could not be stopped even with the court decision, they said. The leaders added that no Muslim had moved the court for the right , of offering prayers for the last 50 years.They said in case the restriction on the darshan of Ram lalla at Ayodhya was - not removed immediately, a countrywide agitation would be launched. And the government would be responsible for the consequences.Criticising the sadbhamna yatras being undertaken by the (Continued on Page 11)Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.(Continued from Page 1)Congress and the Communisl leaders, the BJP leaders said they were being undertaken against the BJP and the Hindus. The leaders appealed to the people to beware ol the “vicious propaganda” of the Congress and the Communist parties.The indefinite fast by several sadhus and sants, demanding darshan of Ram Lalla, continued while some activists of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad were arrested for disrupting traffic on the national highway near here.The president of the Ram Janambhoomi Nyas, Paramhans Ramchandra Das and Mahant Nritya Gopal Das said, the agitation would continue till permission was granted for contiuous darshan.The home secretary, Mr Madhav Godbole who visited Ayodhya recently has apprised the Prime Minister, Mr P. V. Narasimha Rao of the situation in Ayodhya.The home minister, Mr S. B. Chavan, said it was not possible to fix a time-frame for rebuilding the mosque as the entire thing hinged on the acquisition of land and the supreme court’s opinion.Some parties had already started putting hurdles in the government plan to acquire land. Then proper planning has to be done to select the areas where “a temple and a masjid can be built,” Mr Chavan said in an interview.Asked if the government had a time-frame for rebuilding the mosque, the home minister said: “you cannot have a time-frame. The whole thing depends on theacquisition of land and the kind of opinion we get from the supreme court.”While selecting the site for the mosque and the temple the government would have to ensure that this did not perpetuate tension, he said.He appealed to Muslim leaders not to press for offering namaz at the disputed site as this would only accentuate the current situation. The government has been trying hard to restore normalcy in the area and they should understand this. Mr Chavan reminded them that no namaz had been offered there for the last 45 years.On the question of allowing darshan of Ram Lalla idols, Mr Chavan said a decision on the matter had to be taken by the district administration.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Sporadic incidents in AhmedabadThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Apr 25, 1985; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1The Times of India News ServiceAHMEDABAD, April 24T^IFTEEN people were injured in different incidents,including one in police firing at Naroda, in the city today. Stabbing and stone-throwing as well as group clashes continued during the curfew ' relaxation period during the day.The police opened fire on two occasions—at Naroda to disperse warring mobs and at Meghariina-gar to thwart a group of people which attacked a police chowki.(According to PH, the army opened fire for the first time, since it was called in on Monday, when a mob went on a shop-breaking spree at Manek Chowk in Ahmeda-bad).	_ t #Seven people with stab injuries and three victims of stone-throwing were admitted to the V.S. and L.G. Hospitals in the city. Stabbings mostly occurred at Shahpur, Manek Chowk and Vadaj.After the three-day-long orgy of violence, aided and abetted by the police initially, the situation today was comparatively peaceful. But tension prevailed throughout the city, including the curfew-bound areas, such as Raipur, Khadia, Kalupur Daria-pur, Shahpur Gomtipur, Rakhial, Naroda and Bapunagar.According to a government spokesman, only 13 people were killed and 89 others injured in the past three days. However, prominent people, including municipal corporators of various wards, put the toll at more than 25 and those injured over 150.More than 90 people with bullet and stab injuries have been admitted to different hospitals in the city during the period. Hundreds of others who have received minor injuries and burns were treated at1 various- clinics.According to a quick assessment made by a team of “The Times of India” reporters, at least 125 shops and business establishments have been burnt in the last three days. Houses and huts in thousands were set on fire. Scores of families have. , abandoned their houses at Vadej, Bapunagar, Rekhial, Meghaninagar, Gomtipur and Balia Limbdi. They have taken shelter with relatives or friends.A government spokesman described the situation in the city as completely under control and peaceful, barring a few stray incidents of stabbing and stone-throwing. He told reporters this evening that a government jeep was burnt at Maliuya in Bhavnagar district. Otherwise, the state was peaceful, he added.Mr. Ajay Chimanbhai, president ofthe Gujarat Gtamber of Commerce and Industry, has suggested to the government that the army should be put in overall control of the city without further loss of time so as to restore normalcy in the city,He met the chief minister, Mr. Madhavsinh Solanki, and said that this appeared to be the only way to create a peaceful atmosphere and would enable the government and the people to find out a lasting solution to the problems,Mr, Mahendra Patel, president of the Ahmedabad Textile Mills’ Association, has expressed deep concern of the industry over the continued disturbed situation, leading to massive production losses. He said that the present disturbances had affected the already crisis-ridden textile industry, with the _ banking service coming to a standstill and clearance of cheques having been stopped.The Ideal Welfare Society of Gujarat has demanded protection to thebackward classes, which have been the main target of attack by the anti-reservatiionists.The editors of all the six dailies published from Rajkot have appealed to the people of Saurashtra and Kutch to maintain peace.In the appeal, displayed on the front pages of the dailies, the editors appreciated the suspension of the agitation and the government’s efforts to solve the problem through negotiations.Mr. Yashodhar Mehta, former member of the press commission, has sent two telegrams, one to the Union law minister,' Mr. Asoke Sen, and the other to the defence minister, Mr. P. V. Narsimha Rao, to convey to the Prime Minister, Mr. Rajiv Gandhi, that the law and order situation in Gujarat was “very grave.”The Bharat Semashram Sangh has already started providing relief to some of the riot victims. It has distributed grains to the affected families at Gomtipur, Bapunagar, Rakhial,As-arwa and Saraspur and Dariapur.The Photo Journalists Association of Guiarat has condemned the police atrocities particularly the burning of “Gujarat Samachar” and “Western Times” and the attack on the “Indian Express and “Jansatta” as well on press reporters and photographers.The attack on the offices of the two papers have also been condemned by the Gujarat Newspaper Agents’ Association.PTI & UNI add: The chief secretary, Mr. M. Sivagnanam,. said senioi government, army and police officials reviewed the situation and planned deployment of forces after identifying the sensitive spots.In view of the improving situation, the authorities have increased the curfew relaxation period from two to three hours in some areas of the city in a phased manner tomorrow.Curfew will be relaxed for the first time since Monday’s violence in Gomtipur area, they said. The indefinite curfew will, however, continue without ar.y let-up on Relief Road.Special attention is being paid to the security of telephone exchanges, electricity installations and other public utilities, Mr. Sivagnanam said.The state government has set up a special cell, manned by secretaries to the government, which will co-ordinate the working of the army and the police and constantly monitor the situation.Efforts are being made to reopen some textile mills which closed down after the violence began and a meeting with the Millowners’ Association and the Majoor Mahajan will be held tomorrow in this regard.The state government, is also exploring the possibility of ensuring early resumption of banking services and the local clearing house, he said.The anti-reservation leader, Mr. Sanjay Patel, was attacked by some unidentified persons near his house in Asarva in Ahmedabad. Patel, the third movement leader to be attacked in the past one month, was seriously injured and admitted to hospital.Reports of stray cases of violence were also received from some other parts of Gujarat today.	,In Baroda, stoning was reported from some localities and shops and other establishments closed down in areas like Raopura, Lehripura ■ and Mandvi.In curfew-bound Broach town, frenzied mobs burned down a post-office and set ablaze a jeep in the Navadera area.The police fired one round in the taluka town of Unjha, in north Gujarat, to scatter a mob setting fire to the telegraph office.	'Fire brigade personnel could douse the fire at the ^“Gujarat Samachar” building, which was set on fire by enraged policemen on Monday, only this morning.Cops inaccessible, Page 9Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Vajpayee’s gender problemThe Times of India (J86J-current); Sep 6, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 7Vajpayee’s gender problemNEW DELHI, September 5 (UNI): The bachelor status of the Bharatiya Janata Party leader, Mr Atal Behari Vajpayee, became a source of humour in the Rajya Sabha again today when he accidentally addressed the chairman, Mr Shankar Dayal Sharma, as “mahodaya” (madam).Mr Vajpayee had been engaged in a verbal duel with Mrs Bijoya Chakravarty when he turned to address the chairman, and was caught unawares.When Dr Sharma remarked that Mr Vajpayee was addressing women “even in his dreams,” the ebullient BJP member quipped that there was something of women in every man, and every man was “ardh-narishwar” (half man, half woman).Dr Sharma remarked amid laughter that he was surprised to know that even Mr Vajpayee was “ardh-narishwar.”Chaining prisoners in Bengal decriedThe Times of India News ServiceCALCUTTA, Sept. 5: The chaining of political prisoners in hospitals in West Bengal is wrong and barbarous, the chief minister, Mr Jyoti Basu, said here yesterday. This cannot happen in any civilised nation.The chief minister was asked how was it that injured persons arrested during political agitations were kept chained to their hospital beds, to which he replied that, it was a wrong and barbarous act. Mr Basu said that he had issued orders for immediately taking off the shackles from the political prisoners and the persons responsible would be taken to task.Firing in Jalna over immersionThe Times of India News ServiceAURANGABAD, Sept. 5: Eight persons, including four policemen, were injured in stone-throwing as a Ganpati immersion procession at Partur in Jalna district turned violent while at Bhokar in Nanded district the police had to open fire in the air to disperse a violent mob.According to the police, violence erupted in the town of Bhokar when processionists were pelted with stones from a place of worship.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Riots spread to PaithanPRAKASH JOSHI The Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); May 20, 1988; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 1By PRAKASH JOSHI The Times of India News ServiceAURANGABAD, May 19.COMMUNAL	violencetoday spread to Aurangabad’s neighbouring areas of Paithan town and Bidkin village where seven people died in separate incidents taking the death roll inthe three Have nf riots tA 9ftvehicles were set on fire before additional SRP companies and police forces could arrive from Aurangabad.The police authorities said tbit the trouble in the town began after the discovery of a body with stab wounds in the morning. Shoot-at-oght orders were issued and an indefinite curfew was damped bn the town.Tension also prevailed in Pimpiekhed and neighbouring villages. The police opened two rounds of fire inih* rnmiiw in Ri/ilrin villflM on theWUCIC IIin Aurangaoau cuy, people were killed till yesterday, two others succumbed to injuries today. Sporadic incidents of violence continued till late in the night.In the historic town of Paithan, 54 km from here, a youth was burnt alive in Nath Galli, while two others died in stabbing inddents in the Rangahatti Galli area. Several houses, shops andAurangabad-Paithan road where 50 shops and houses were gutted yesterday.The minister of state, Mr J. T. Mabjan, and the special IGP in charge of the law and order, Mr S. P. Singh, are camping here.Medical officers treating the injured persons in the government hospital arebaffled by the nature of the stabbing wounds. The: large number of stabbinginddents has also alarmed the police since many of the attacks were made on strangers by adopting the hit-and-run tactics. The medical officers are convinced that the assailants were no novices in using weapons like Ram-puris.Unlike the earlier riots in the city where mobs of rival communities: would challenge each other and attack,, in the present instance the victims werei either unsuspecting strangers, or per-., sons from the weaker section who carnet here in search of work.A vendor, who went out on cycle for repairing stoves in the CIDCo colony, was found dead in a stabbing incident. In certain areas, armed miscreants; entered houses and attacked die inmates. A professor of a local college was a victim of such an attack.A complaint was also made at the peace committee meeting that a large number of externees from Bombay, Thane, Kalyan and Bhiwandi had nowr made Aurangabad their hide-outThe police suspect these anti-socialelements to be responsible for the riots.The chief minister’s decision to ban the entry of leaders of communal organisations was appreciated by leaden of all political parties. However, they felt that the decision had come a bit too late.According to observers, communal tension has been growing in the dty for the last three years, often leading to riots. But very little has been done by the authorities or political parties to tackle the situation.The municipal corporation elections were surcharged with tension as the campaigning was on communal lines. The Shiv Sena won the election, defeating the Congress and wiping out other major opposition parties like the Janata and the BJP.The bitterness created during the elections continued to affect social life. The crisis deepeneded with the success of the Congress in the mayoral pollThe district authorities showed total lack of sensitiveness when the mayoral poll was held on April 17, a day after the Ambedkar JayantL The Shiv Jayanti that followed further escalated tension.On May 17, the day the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court reserved its ruling on a writ petition rhfllli-nging the mayoral election, the police force in the city was inadequate, which led to uncheacked arson and looting. The Shiv Sena activists, frustrated over the election of a Congress candidate, were anxiously awaiting the court’s ruling.Mr Chavan, in feet, expressed surprise over the number of persons present in the court on the day of the ruling.A significant development which took place prior to the court hearing was a meeting held by the Shiv Sena in Aurangabad near the Janata Bazar and attended by its leader, Mr Chhagan Bhujbal MLA.It was held on May 16, a day before of the court hearing. The meeting, attended by the recently elected Shiv Sena corporators, had passed a resolution changing, ' the name of Aurangapura to “Sambh^jpeth.”Our Staff Reporter adds from Bombay: The director-general of police, Mr D. S. Soman, told reporters here that one person died in police firing aroundrnnttimed on Pace 3Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.Continued from Page 15 p.m. today in Bidkin village, about 25 kms from Aurangabad.Two persons who received stab wounds were reported to be in a serious condition, Mr Soman said.In Paithan, the police picked up a suspect in connection with the murder of the man whose body was found near Bharat cinema. The deceased and the suspect were on inimical terms, he said. During a fight on April 16, the fingers of the accused had been chopped, allegedly by a gang led by the deceased.Soon after the suspect was taken in for interrogation by the police, violence erupted and the dashes took a com-munaltura, Mr Soman said.The police have so for arrested 396 persons in Aurangabad. The police were studying the taperecorded speech of the Shiv Sena leader, Mr Madhuknr Srapotdar, who was alleged to have made “inflammatory remark at Aurangabad yesterday, top police sources said.indulge in violence with no effort made by the police for nearly two hours to quell it2	STABBED (PTI from Pune): Two persons were injured in two stabbing incidents in the Kasba Peth area as fresh incidents of arson, stabbing and hurling of “bottle missiles” were reported from sensitive parts of the dty, die police said.A leather works was attacked with bottles in Budhwar Peth area this afternoon and a doth sheet outside the shop set on fire with petrol by some miscreants, the police said.A house in cantonment area was also attacked with bottles.THACKERAY CHARGEThe Shiv Sena chief; Mr Bal Thackeray, has blamed the Congress for the riots. 1Upset by the Shiv Sena’s victory in the Aurangabad munidpal elections, the Congress had instigated the riots to discredit the Sena, he said.Meanwhile, Mr G. M. Banatwalla, Indian Union Muslim League M.P., has described the communal violence in Aurangabad as “a shocking tragedy” and said it was “created by the inexcusable criminal failure on the part of the police and the dvil administration.”He pointed out that though, Mr Chavan, had admitted there was advance knowledge of the plans to create disturbances in Aurangabad on Tuesday, thousands of supporters were allowed to gather at the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court during the hearing of a writ petition filed by a Shiv Sena corporator.Mr Banatwalls said that the mob retumina from the court was allowed toReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿1 killed in fresh U.P. violenceThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jan 11, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 131 killed in fresh U.P. violenceThe Times of India News ServiceLUCKNOW, Jan 10: One person was killed and six others were injured in renewed incidents of violence inAgra and Rampur.According to an official spokesman, a betel-shop owner, Sanjiv Gupta, had an altercation with two pesons near his shop in Mangal Ki Pait in Rampur. The altercation led to firing in which Gupta: was injured.Soon the Panwallah’s supporters gathered and attacked a general merchant, Iqbal, with lathis. The ensuing clash between the two communities led to the death of one person and gunshot injuries to another.The spokesman said that two persons have been arrested so far in connection with last night’s incident. He claimed that the situation was peaceful after the clash. However, additional police force has been rushed to Rampur.In Agra, a mob attacked a house in Tulsi Ka Chabutra locality under the Tajganj police station and resorted to brickbatting. The mob exploded crackers and set another vacant house on fire. Three persons were injured.The police has arrested 54 people on charges of rioting. The Tajganj police station in-charge has been suspended for not taking prompt action.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿7 BOYS ARE DROWNED, 5 MISSING, 2 RESCUED: TRAGEDY MARS GANAPATI IMMERSIONA Staff ReporterThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 3, 1963; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of Indiapg. 17 BOYS ARE DROWNED, 5 MISSING, 2 RESCUEDTragedy Mars Ganapati Immersion CeremonyBy A Staff' ReporterSEVEN boys were drowned in Bombay on Monday. The tragedy marred the last day of the Ganapati Festival in thecity.The boys lost their lives as they were participating in the Ganapati immersion ceremonySix of them while consigning the clay images in the sea off Versovs were swept away by the waves Another was carried away by a strong .current, off Kanclivli. .Large crowds' 'Which turned . up ai the sea-shore to witness the immersion stood aghast as the bodies were brought ashore by men of the fire-brigade.	/	’The police had a difficult time keeping them in check.NAMES OF VICTIMSThe firemen rescued two othei boys who were also swept away by the waves. They were admitted tc the Nanavati Hospital. Chandrakanl Waman (14) and Pursuram Reluma! Vasnani (19) were stated to be pro gressing.The names ol the seven victims were given as: Baljram Kotin (12), Maruti Ganpat Shinde (29), Laxman Jadav (17), Anant Jhamble (12), Manu G. Savle (12), Umesh Bhen dekar (13), and Shanker Yeshwant ol Kandivli.The police stated that five more boys were reported missing.Thousands of clay-images of the elephant-headed God were immersed in the sea at different places in the city as the ten-day festival came to an end.THREE KILLED AT MALEGAON Police Fire On Rioters“The Times of India” News ServiceNAS1K, September 2: Two persons were reported killed and nine others wounded when the police opened fire twice at Malegaon today on a rioting mob. One more person was killed in the riot.Rioting broke out when soda-water bottles and other missiles were hurled it a Ganapati procession.When it was passing by a place of worship at Sardar Chowk bricks and soda-water bottles were hurled at the processionists, who turning into a riotous mob, looted shops.When the situation went out of -ontrol, the police opened fire. Twelve persons were rushed to the Malegaon —ivil Hospital. Eight policemen were ilso reported to	have been injured)Y stones.About 300 policemen, including 150 members of the State Reserve ’olice, were posted at Malegaon anticipating trouble.	Another party of150 policemen is to be rushed to the dace from Nasik.The authorities claimed tonight hat the situation was brought under control after rounding up a number >f anti-social elements.P.T.I. adds:	Eighty persons wereinjured in uie riot. According to the police, 13 persons received bullet injuries.The police had to resort to lathi-charge and open fire before order was restored. A 24-hour curfew was, imposed from 8 p.m.(	5 Die In Poona“The Times of India” News ServicePOONA,. September 2: Five, fatal accidents were reported in Poona city today.Four boys ■ were 'drowned in the Mutha River while immersing the images of Ganapati. In the fifth accident, a three-year-old child was run over and killed by a bus.The main procession wended its way to the Mutha through the main thoroughfares of the city. Nearly 400 images were taken for immersion in the procession which was several thousand strong. People from nearby villages had com* to witness it.The Poona station of All India Radio broadcast a running commentary on the procession for nearly 75 minutes.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿TWO DIE IN MEERUT: INDEFINITE CURFEW IMPOSEDThe Times of India (J86J-current); Oct 7, 1961; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Indefinite Curfew ImposedMEERUT. October 6.TROOPS were called out to assist the police in Meerut where two persons were killed and 13 others were injured in communal disturbances that flared up today.Curfew has been _ imposed on the town for an indefinite period. Unruly mobs today looted and burnt several shops and houses at various places in the city.	• ■Among the injured persons-: are Mr. Rawat, Deputy Superintendent of ^Police, and Mr. Balbir Singh, City Kotwal, who were injured when brickbats were thrown in. Purwa Sheikhlal. IThe Home Minister, Mr. _ Charan Singh, who arrived here this afternoon told newsmen that the district authorities all over the State had been asked to take stem measures to handle the situation.MINISTER’S WARNINGMr. Charan Singh said that if the situation worsened in Meerut, the district authorities would not hesitate to, take recourse _ to extraordinary provisions, including the imposition of collective fines and the arrest of people under the Preventive Detention Act. _The Minister also said that the additional police- force would reach Meerut from Agra and Sitapur- tomorrow along with some additional police officers and a Deputy Inspector-General.	#Reports of tension in some other towns of Meerut District have also reached here, and at some places unruly mobs are reported to have burnt some; shops.	_A press note issued by the District Magistrate, however, stated ' thatContinued on Page 7 Column 5Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.TENSE SITUATION IN MEERUT Round-up Of ‘Goondas’Continued from Page I Column 8nothing untoward had happened anywhere in the interior of the district.Defying prohibitory orders, the students again took out a procession here this morning, but ultimately they dispersed.The police were sui rounded at several places and the people ol one community made an unsuccessful attempt on the life of a sub-inspector.The situation is still tense and the police and the Army have been asked to take due precautions during the night.About 50 goondas and mischief-mongers were arrested today. The press note issued by the District Magistrate, however, did not give the exact number of persons arrested,Mr. Shah Nawaz Khan. Deputy Railway Minister, and Mrs. Pra-kashvati Sood, State Deputy Minister, earlier toured various localities in the city.—F.N.S.I Gorakhpur: The District Magistrate today promulgated a prohibitory order under Section 144, Cr.P.C.. banning meetings and processions in the city.About 800 students of the Gorakhpur University, who tried to take oul a procession in the city, found it difficult to proceed from the University campus.Earlier at a meeting the students adopted a resolution condemning the attack on the Aligarh University students belonging to one community, They urged the Government to take action against the culprits.—l.N.S.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿150 hurt in J &amp; K clashesThe Times of India (J86J-current); May 30, 1984; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1SRINAGAR, May 29 (UNI).MORE than 150 people, including 60 policemen, were injured at Anantnag and Srinagar when demonstrators protesting against the incidents in Bhiwandi turnedviolent,	,	tThe police lobbed tear-gas shells to disperse stone-throwing mobs at both places.	1About 90 people, including 50 policemen, were injured at Anantnag alone.	.One person was killed and another injured when the police opened fire at Kailashpora and Khanyar here, after teargassing and lathicharge. failed to disperse violent mobs indulging in stone-throwing.The office of the deputy superintendent of police at .Khanyar in Srinagar was set on fire., Sporadic clashes were reported between lathi-wielding policemen and violent mobs at Fasakadal in the city. The police used tear-gas to disperse the mob.	.JUDGE’S HOUSE STONED. The mob had gheraoed a police station, official reports said. .In the Karam Nagar area of the city, the police burst tear-gas shells to disperse a mob which stoned the house of the judge who had passed the death si 3-tence on the so-called Kashmir Liberation Front leader, Maqbool Butt.r The mob also stoned fourteen other houses.About 60 people, including * 40 at Anantnag, were arrested in connection with the clashes.Fifteen of the seriously injured, including a DSP, were admitted to a Srinagar hospital.Eye-Witnesses said a place of worship was stoned, at Karam Nagar and an attempt was made to set fire to a house in which religious books were kept.New Delhi (UNI): , The Youth Congress, president, Mr. Tariq Anwar, on Tuesday .urged the Maharashtra government to order a judicial inquiry into the “communal flare up in Bhiwandi, Thane and parts of Bombay.”In a statement here, he urged the •government to provide adequate compensation, to the riot-affected people. He also demanded immediate release of “innocent and old people.”	•Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Tension in Kerala dist.The Times of India (J86J-current); Apr 20, 1992; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Tension in Kerala dist.KOLLAM, April 19; Tension prevailed in parts of Kollam district in Kerala today and the police fired in the air to disperse two groups of people in Eravipuram, where one person was killed and two others injured in police firing last night, reportjs PTI. |The police said they fired in the air when large groups gathered despite prohibitory orders being in force.The police last night fired to quell members of two communities who clashed over the holding of religious festivals. Two places of worship were damaged and over 30 shops destroyed in the clash. About 30 people, most of them policemen, were also injured during the brickbatting.Tight vigil was being maintained at Eravipuram, the police said.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿1 killed in fresh Surat violenceThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jan 18, 1993; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 111 killed in freshSurat violenceThe Times of India News Service AHMEDABAD. January 17:One person was killed and three others injured in stabbing in fresh violence in the riot-ravaged Surat city this afternoon, whereas the situation remained peaceful in the Broach, Jhalod and Sinor towns during the curfew relaxation. No relaxation was granted in the Patan town of Mehsana district as a precautionary measure.In Ahmedabad the situation remained comparatively peaceful today. However, in isolated incidents one person was stabbed near► This cannot be my beloved city, Page 9Khadavali-Chawl in Gomtipur and also a shop was set on fire by some miscreants near Ajit Mill in the same area.One more incident of arson hadalso taken place in Raikhad, in which a pan shop a was set ablaze.The situation in Surat City worsened, when the two groups of youths belonging to the same community playing cricket, clashed on the Rander Road. The captain of one of the teams ran for his life and was chased by the angry members of the other team and escaped through a nearby locality.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew imposed on HubliThe Times of India (J86J-current); Mar 22, 1972; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1Curfew imposed on Hubli	.HUBLI, March 21.\ DUSK-TO-DAWN curfew was clamped	down on the	citytoday.	'	;•This followed the death in hospital this morning of a youth stabbed in group clashes on Friday, which touched off incidents of violence;The curfew will remain m force tomorrow, too, it was officially statedAt least four cases of arson were reported from different areas of the city till this afternoon.STUDENTS STONEDEven as local leaders and the police authorities were in conference over a demand to take out a procession for the funeral of the dead youth, nearly 1,000 students began a march through the city. At some points, the students were the target of stonethrowing.The police resorted to a lathi charge to disperse violent mobs in several places.Of those injured in today's incidents. two have been admitted to hospital.The police said 30 people were arrested and six, who sustained injuries in stone-throwing, rvere admitted in hospitals.According to the police, the residence of an MLA from Hubli city,Mr. I. G. Sanagi, was stoned by a mob. The house of a retired police superintendent and about eight' shops were set on fire, the police said.All shops, hotels and the general post office were closed following the violence. The district magistrate, Mr.B. K. Bhattacharya, and the superintendent of police. Mx_ N.. a. BKat., have rushed to the spot.—P.T.l. &U.N.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Meerut toll rises to 6Our Staff CorrespondentThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 9, 1982; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Meerut tollrises to 6By Oar Staff CorrespondentMEERUT, September 8: The toll in stabbing cases here rose to six, with reports of five more deaths coming in today.One person, who received knife wounds in Gujari Bazar, adjacent to the Kotwali police station, died in hospital. Another person died of stabwounds in the Brahmapuri locality. Three bodies were recovered from the Bhumia-Ka-Pul area which is not under curfew. One person i had died on Monday night.Indefinite curfew was imposed in several localities yesterday following the death of a person in clashes ber tween two groups in the troubled Shahghasa locality on Monday night.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Firing to disperse mob in AhmedabadThe Times of India (J86J-current); May 26, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Firing to dispersemob in AhmedabadAHMEDABAD, May 25 (UNI): The police fired four rounds and burst two teargas shells to disperse a group of people belonging to a certain community in the city’s Sgraspur area at midnight yesterday.Police officials said a police patrol had earlier tried to persuade the clashing group to disperse, failing which two teargas shells were burst.When the people started hurling stones at the police, four rounds were fired.One police constable was injured in the stone-throwing. Six persons have been arrested on charges of rioting and attacking men in uniform.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿12 more killed in simmering MeerutThe Times of India (1861-current); May 25, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1MEERUT, May 24 (UNI):•TWELVE more people were -*• killed in this city during the past 24 hours, raising the toll in the six-day-old riots to 75 as curfew was imposed in several new’ areas today.An official spokesman said today that the number of casualties in yesterday evening's police firing in the Maliana area was seven, including one woman.Two unidentified bodies were brought to the local mcdiTal college this afternoon, college sources said. The bodies were those of the victims of yesterday's \ iolcnce in the Dorala are^, they said.	'Yesterday’s police firing followed a public protest against combing operations by the Provincial Armed Constabulary in the sensitive Maliana area. The police said they recovered two bodies from a cinema hall late last night.	<Curfew was imposed on several new areas today. An official spokesman told newsmen that this has been done in view of the situation in the riot-torncity. Now. only the civil lines and themedical college police stations areasare curfew-free.“The areas under curfew are still tense. he said. No major incidents were, however, reported since last night, he said.Tl)ere was no relaxation in curfew in any 'area today, the spokesman said. Supply and sale of essential commodities was also not possible, he told newsmen.Several oulstalion journalists in-cluding those from New Delhi were notgiven curfew passes to tour the affectedareas.The U.P. chief minister. Mr V. B. Singh, today visited the city to review the situation. This was his fourth visit in six days. The chief minister, accompanied by the home minister, held discussions with several high-ranking officials.* Mr V. B. Singh said the administration had been told to deal sternly with anti-social elements. The situation would be well under control within three days, he added.Meanwhile, police have rounded up another 800 people to take the total number of arrests to 2,500. Besides, a large quantity ofarmsand ammunition and some explosive material have seen seized.	,With the transfer of the city police superintendent, Mr B. K. Chaturvedi, indications are that more changes will be effected in the police set-up. The transfers have been kept in abeyance in view of the prevailing situation.PAC jawans were yesterday fired at by miscreants while conducting searches in the outlying Maliana area. In the reiurn fire by the police, five peoplewere killed, the police said. However, residents of the area claimed there were eight casualties.MEETINGS BANNED (UNI from Lucknow): The Uttar Pradesh government today banned public meetings, rallies and demonstrations in five of the 12 divisions and six districts in the state till June 10.This has been done to ensure communal amity and peaceful observance of td, later this month, official sources said today. The ban order coversdivisions of Agra, Meerut, Bareilly, Moradabad and Faizabad as well as the districts of Azamgarh, Lucknow, Varanasi, Kanpur, fatehpur and Allahabad.	.However, religious congregations would, remain exempted from the ban.Meanwhile, Mr Mandhata Singh and Mr Lallan Pandey, both members of the presidium of the Uttar Pradesh employees and teachers confederation, today announced they would go ahead with plans to hold a rally of government employees and teachers here on May 27. The former defence minister Mr. V. P. Singh has been invited to address the proposed rally.PTI adds: the president of the Uttar Pradesh unit of the Lok Dal (B), Mr Mulayam Singh Yadav, today demanded mid-term poll in the state because the Congress government had lost the peoples’ confidence.”Holding the ruling party responsible for the outbreak of violence in Meerut, Mr Yadav said internal bickerings of the ruling party led to riots in different parts of the country.FLEEING PEOPLE (PTI from Ghaziabad): People from Meerut aretaking shelter with their relatives inurban and rural areas of Ghaziabad, according to the police superintendent.The district magistrate said all necessary precautions have been taken for maintaining peace in the district.PAC forces have been deployed in the rural areas. Additional forces have been deployed at all the national highways. he said. -He denied rumours that some dead bodies were found floating in the Ghaziabad canal.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Stray incidents in HyderabadThe Times of India (J86J-current); Sep 12, 1983; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Stray incidents in HyderabadBy Our Special CorrespondentHYDERABAD, September 11: Sporadic violence and stray stabbing incidents continued , in parts of the city, which has been plagued by communal clashes since Friday.So far six people have lost their lives either in stabbing incidents or in police firing and 70 have been injured.The trouble was sparked off by a bandh call given by a local '.political party to protest against the alleged desecration of a place of worship last week. .	.	'	' ■The police today claimed thatdes-pite sporadic incidents the situation .was well under control.Viramgam curfew easedAHMED ABAD, September 11 (PTI): The curfew at Viramgam town was relaxed for three hours this afternoon following improvement in the situation, police said.The town was brought under 24-hour curfew yesterday following Friday’s group violence.	.High police officials and SRP jawans rushed to the town and brought the situation under control, the state control added.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Firing and curfew in Mangalore: Two deathsThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Apr 21, 1968; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Firing and! curfew in Mangalore:Two deaths“The Times of India” News ServiceMANGALORE, April 20.fTHE police today fired on .yio-■*> lent mobs in the Kudroli and Bunder localities of Mangalore where a communal clash followed large-scale destruction of private and public property last night, vClashes, looting and burning- of buildings and vehicles continued this morning in the Kudroli, Bockapatna, Boloor, Bunder and Hoige Bazar' areas. A dawn-to-dusk curfew was imposed.' ' ,	'	' ' (According to PTJ, one person, who sustained: bullet injuries in the , police firing died .in .the district - hospital.)Twenty-four people, • including four police , officrs, . were admitted to hospital today and four others were treated, as ..put-patients. Over 100 .people were' rounded up by the police who seized lethal weapons and incendiary materials, including iron rods and kerosene tins.	.Fall from windowAn 18-year-old boy, Prakash, - was reported- to have- fallen frcm a . window in a11 troubled locality last night and . sustained severe head , injuries. He died in hospital early this morning. f.-	.	.The Deputy Commissioner :of..'Police said trouble started after 9-30 - p.m. yesterday' in the Kandak, Hoige Bazar and Boloor areas’ when . opposing groups fought each other with soda- , water bottles, brick-bats, stones and' fire-balls. r :: :	• ••There was widespread looting and arson. A lull followed after . 3-30 a.m., only to be broken by further trouble in' the Kudroli and Bunder areas. Two cars and some cycles were set on fire at '-Bunder and a lorry ..went up in flames at Kudroli.P.T.I. adds:A	car-belonging	to Mr. M.Srinivasa Nayak, a member of the State Assembly, was smashed by Hooligans this morning.Some shop* were, turned to ashes and burnt cars and cycles were i>’* mg unclaimed'on the roads^-Rrpken ' furniture, , household utensils• -and transistors were found stream over the road in several areas,’ Many'women; were seen moving, out Vvitli--children tef:p!ac‘es.:of safety;: V:The police opened fire on violent mobs at two places late last • night when- unruly elements indulged in arson and. looting.'\. -	. : . '	'. ./ According • to the' Deputy Commissioner of Police, no one was. injured in the'firing. ■ ’AA- ■ ■	■' ^The trpuble between members of two communities; which started early yesterday, took a bad turn' in'- the night, and spread to several areas. ■Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Plea against namaz dismissedThe Times of India (1861-current); Jan 1, 1993; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 11Plea against namaz dismissedLUCKNOW, December 31THE Lucknow bench of Allahabad high court today dismissed a writ petition seeking issuance of a writ of mandamus to the Uttar Pradesh government to restrain the all-India Babri masjid action committee (AIBMAC) and its followers from marchinc towards Ayodhya for offering “namaz” at the disputed site today, reports UNI.The special division bench, consisting of Mr Justice S. C. Mathui and Mr Justice Brijesh Kumar, dismissed the petition after hearing the petitioners, holding that it was for the Faizabad district administration to take appropriate action. The bench passed these orderson a public interest writ petition filed by Dr V. P. Sharma and Mr Anand Chaturvedi, both advocates. It observed that it was the duty of the district magistrate, Faizabad, to take appropriate action in dealing with the situation arising out of the possibility of a confrontation at the site.The bench was of the view that the matter pertained to low and order. It therefore declined to interfere at this stage.According to the writ petition, the suit property belonged to the Hindus as mentioned in Encyclopaedia Britannica, page 693, 694, sutvpara Ayodhya of volume number 1.Encyclopaedia Britannica istreated to be the most authentic evidence, relied upon even by the United Nations, the petition said.Meanwhile, the special bench consisting of Mr Justice S. C. Mathur, Mr Justice Brijesh Kumar and Mr Justice S. H. A. Raza, today fixed January 11 for hearing the application of Mr Mohammad Hashim, filed earjier against a February, 1986, order by Mr K. M. Pandey, then district judge of Faizabad.It is vide this order that the gates of the disputed site were opened for puja and darshan.Mr Abdul Manna, counsel for Mr Mohammad Hashim, had filed the application yesterday.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Five killed in AllahabadOur Staff CorrespondentThe Times of India (1861-current); Aug 22, 1980; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1By Our Staff CorresnnndenlLUCKNOW, August 21.Five people were killed in renewed violence in Allahabad when curfew was relaxed there today. Hand-grenades and countrymade bombs were used in the clashes, resulting in serious injuries to a PAC jawan.According to the collector, Mr. S. A. T. Rizvi, curfew was reimposed on ..Allahabad after the clashes and outbreak of violence in the afternoon.Five localities, including Khuldabad and Muthiganj, are now being patrolled by the army, the PAC and the civil police.In other towns of the state there was comparative peace and curfew was relaxed in Pilibhit, Aligarh, Mora-dabad, Bareilly and Sambhal. Night curfew will however, continue in these places. The army was withdrawn from Pilibhit.In the old city of Lucknow there _ was some tension this morning, fol-, lowing a rumour that part of a pig’s g carcass was found near a mosque. The e rumour proved baseless. A large contingent of policemen, led by the police j chief and the collector, rushed to the 3 chowk/area and cordoned off the affected region.s UNI & PTI add: f The chief secretary, Mr. R, B. Sax-ena, told newsmen that, barring Allahabad where the situation had taken e a serious turn, there was considerable e improvement in other places.3	He said in Allahabad some misS creants had hurled explosives at the I car in which the collector and the se-* nior superintendent of police were i travelling. One person had been arrested in connection with the incident.j Mr. Saxena said a thorough probe . would be made by the government to find out how similar incidents had [ occurred in all riot-affected towns. He said the government would from now on direct the law and order tnachin-e cry to strictly protect places of wor-9 ship of different communities.He said the government had directly ed the district authorities to arrest all a anti-social elements in Lucknow, a In Moradaibad the situation had improved further and curfew had been relaxed there today in phases in 112 of the 120 localities. There was no incident during relaxation.However, passing through the streets and the main bazars one could notice the absence of women and children.In the Zarballan Ideality a board announcing “we are hungry” had been put up. the district magistrate, Mr. Madhukar Gupta, said a mobilefair-price shop had been opened there.Thousands of cooked food packets were distributed among the needy. The residents of Gandhinagar locality, with the help of the NCC cadets, distributed about 5,000 such packets.Two prominent Congress (I) leaders of the town, Mr. Abid Hussain and Mr. Kabir Hussain Ansari, have announced their resignation from the party, protesting against what they called police repression on the minority community on Id-ul-Fitr day and have appealed to all Muslim Congress (I) legislators, members of Parliament and ministers to quit the party.BareOIy (UNI): The fatal stabbing of one person during the relaxation of curfew here on Wednesday was described by the authorities as un-connected with the Moradabad incidents. They claimed that it was the result of some old feud.The clashes between the police and the minority community in the state have, so far, taken a toll of 134' lives since August 13, it was officially stated here tonight.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Riot-torn areas in U.P. peacefulThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 14, 1988; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Riot-torn areas in U.P. peacefulThe Times ol India News ServiceMUZAFFARNAGAR, October 13:Stray incidents Of arson and brickbatting were reported from die walled city despite curfew. It was relaxed for two hours in Khatauli from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m., when no untoward incident was reported. ■ ;Sayyed Ahmad Bukhari, 'son Ot Imam Bukhari and leader of the Adam Sena, who was coming here from Delhi, was prevented from entering the district.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Youth Beaten Up By Mob, Dies: RESENTED INSULT TO FLAGThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 4, 1956; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 11Uttar PradeshYouth Beaten Up By Mob, DiesRESENTED INSULT TO FLAG“The Times of India” News Service I JYLOKAUABAD. September 3: ouycun, a, young man wno was seriously injured when a mob attacked him last night at a meeting organised to protest against certain remarks contained in a book published by the Bharatiya Vidhya Bhavan, Bombay, later died in a hospital.Maulana Qasim, one of the speakers at the meeting, has been arrested on a charge of assault and rioting.	IThe young man had taken objection to the vituperations of the speakers at the meetirig against Hindus and U.P.’s Governor, Mr. K. M. Munshi, who is associated with the editorial board of the Bhavan.The speakers criticised the Union Government and calldd upon Muslims to insult the national flag. When Shyam took objection, he was beaten up.All markets and institutions were closed today as a protest against the attack. Armed police were patrolling the town.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Kerala 'no' to Thapar groupThe Times of India (J86J-current); Aug 23, 1973; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Kerala ‘no’ to Thapar group“The Times of India News ServiceTRIVANDRUM. August 22:	TheKerala cabinet today decided to withdraw support to the Thapar group for setting up a tiianium complex in the private sector, the chief minuter, Mr. C. Achutha Menon, announcedtoday.The cabinet decision is the result of political pressure and means a \ir-tnal ban on any private-sector project for titanium development in Kerala.A state-owned undertaking, Tiawtn-corc, Titanium Products, which holds a monopoly for titanium products in the country, has been licensed to expand its activities.The Atomic Lnergy Commission has also been given a licence to set up a titanium project in Kerala.Playing of music starts riotBy A Staff ReporterA “Govinda procession passing by a p'ace of worship resulted in a riot on Bapa Khote Street. Pydhonic, in Bombay on Wednesday.The trouble arose when tho>c in the place of worship asked the processionists to tone down the volume of their music. A free-for-all ensued in which stones and aerated water bottles were used.The police remained tight-lipped regarding details of the trouble. One person, however., was learnt to have been injured. A paan1' shop and a restaurant were damaged.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Rourkela Situation Is Better: Trouble ElsewhereThe Times of India (1861-current); Mar 23, 1964; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1BHUBANESWAR, March 22. a and some others had been kept asI stand-by to meet emergency requirements.—P.T.LWHILE the situation in Rour-kela ^ recorded “further improvement'’ today, sporadic incidents of arson and looting took place in Sundargarh, Rajgangpur, Bisra. Birmitrapur and Launga in Sundargarh District of Orissa State, according to official reports.The official death-roll in.Rourkela and suburbs rose to 62 with reports of nine more deaths received today.The military, which has been in full control in Rourkela since yesterday, took control today of the Bisra area adjoining the steel town,TWO ROUNDS FIREDThe reports said there were no incidents in Rourkela today. But the military opened fire in the old town twice at two places, one round on each occasion, to scare away tiouble-makers.No death was reported in the firing.	.“Further relaxation” of tension in Brajrajnagar, Jharsuguda and Sambal-pur was officially reported.The report of one death due to knife injuries on Friday was received from the Jharsuguda police station area outside the town. -This was the lirst death reported from Sambalpur District in the current clashes.A press note issued by the Home Department of the Orissa Government tonight said that the 24-hour curfew, damped on Rourkela town yesterday, was further extended.Patrolling by the army and the police personnel who were, assisting it continued.The press note said that curfew was relaxed at Jharsuguda for lour hours between six and ten this morning.The State Government has however. decided not to relax the curfew in the town tomorrow in view of a case of arson during the relaxation of curfew.HOOLIGANS ARRESTEDThe press note said large-scale arrest of hooligans had been effected in the different affected areas, including 250 in Rourkela town.According to latest official reports, the police tired a total of 21 rounds in Rourkela on Friday night at three places. No death \\as repotted.’’Ihe prC'v note said that ‘'exemplary courage and a sen-e of sacrifice was shown hv the students ol Rourkela Fncineeting t.olleee during the dis-titibances. in gi'.ing .sheltei to . citizens evacuated lot safety horn the affected areas.••I he Suite (•'rovnnment, todav rush-. cd two pkm. loads of milk powdet to. Ronikela fot fh, ;i--e ol the evacuated eui/eii-.I .ilea official tepoti' siul die MtviKih o! the .military in Ro.nke’a v..»s iciniotccd today.	,Oiisvi militaty police petsonne! fan aimed'‘civil police force)', who had been sent to We-t Bengal during rioTs thete. had been ni-heJ back to 'Orissa ■o meet the situation, borne of them had been sent to the disturbed townsReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Violence in Bihar AP, MP claims 20The Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Nov 3, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1The Times of India News ServiceNEW DELHI, Nov. 2./COMMUNAL frenzy con-V_/tinued to grip U.P., Andhra Pradesh, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh today and over 20 people were killed in the states since last night.The army virtually took over the district administration in Bijnore inU.P., where 12 more bodies were recovered from rural areas. The toll in Bijnore itself in the last three days was 30, and for U.P. as a whole 53.One person was killed when members of the two communities clashed in Aligarh district last night. Two persons were killed earlier in police firing in Aligarh.Tension mounted in Bulandshahar last night following rumours of clashes. The clashes did occur and one person was killed.There was heavy brickbatting in Allahabad and Varanasi today between members of the two communities. Both the cities have been brought under curfew.Two people were killed in Ranga Reddy district adjoining Hyderabad last night One died in police firing and the other was stabbed. Curfew in Hyderabad has been extended till Sunday. *The police commissioner of Hyderabad, Mr G. Gurunatha Rao, said though the situation was under control in Hyderabad, curfew was being continued in view of the situation elsewhere in the country.Three bodies were found in Patna city, taking the toll in the Biharcapital to five. Curfew was relaxed for two hours this morning to enable people to say Friday prayers and on account of kartik purnima.The police and paramilitary forces fired seven rounds near Noon-Ka-Chauraha to quell clashing mobs. Incidents of Arson, bomb blasts continued to be reported.The police today fired seven rounds on drug smuggler gangs of the two communities who were indulging in large-scale arson and violence in the curfew-bound Mhow cantonment town near Indore, wounding 30. i Shoot-at-sight orders have since been issued. Night curfew continues in an i Indore suburb.The police patrolling has been intensified in riot-prone areas of Calcutta and West Bengal districts, as the press, particularly die language press, started publishing news and pictures about “kar seva” in Ayodhya on October 30. The left parties and the Congress are going ahead with their week-long campaign for communal harmony. The left front administration is worried that communal violence in Bangladesh and Bihar could have its impact in the state.Nine persons were killed and 12 injured in violence while army staged a flag march in curfew bound areas of Meerut city today, reports PTI.The senior superintendent of' police, Mr Babulal Yadava said that five bodies were received at the hospital mortuary while four persons succumbed to injuries in the hospital.Shoot-at-sight orders have been issued if anyone is found indulging in looting,’ arson, and rioting while police used riot-gun (rubber bullets) at several places to disperse mobs.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿1 dead in firing on revellersOur staff CorrespondentThe Times of India (1861-current); Mar 18, 1984; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 91 dead in firing on revellersuy uur Staff CorrespondentAHMEDABAD, March 17: One man was killed when the SRP opened fire u> disperse two warring grdups of Holi revellers On the Sabarmati riverbed today.Two SRP men were severely beaten up by the. revellers, who snatched away the rifle, five cartridges, cap and badges of an SRp constable. The rifle was tatejr recovered, but not the cartridges.Tlie trouble reportedly started when some children playing in the knee-deep water of the river kicked up a row over some trivial matter. The quarrelling childreh attracted their parents on either side of the river, where there are two large slums.Someone informed the SRP men camping behind the V. S. Hospital.Three SRP personnel rushed to the spot, but were dragged into the water and beaten up. Meanwhile, another SRP constable who was a little distance away from the commotion opened fire.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Violence at Belgaum Ganesh feteThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 24, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1' rT'HE police had to make a lathi-1 . 1 charge and burst tear-gas shells ' .to disperse an unruly mob of . youths who refused to remove an j obstruction in the path of a Ganesh ‘ idol procession here yesterday.(A youth was killed and 3S f people, including several police-n men, were injured in the incident, y according to UNll. n (The police said an unidentified youth succumbed to head injuries in the government hospital. t (Tension gripped the city follow-,f ing the violence and arson in which about 20 shops and some vehicles d were damaged. The situation is d now under control.(The police said prohibitory orders were clamped on the city for three days. Schools and colleges were asked to close today and tomorrow.(Meanwhile, the Belgaum unit ofthe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had given a call for a bandh in the city today to protest against the violence).Stones and brickbats were hurled at the police who attempted to clear the road. Over 20 policemen were injured. About 120 people were taken into custody and ban orders► See Edit: Hardly Festive, Page 10were imposed this morning.As part of their Id Milad celebration Muslims had erected pan-dal in the middle of the road, and it was agreed between the two communities that it would be removed to facilitate the procession. However, when the Ganesh procession came youths refused to do so, and the police intervention followed.The Ganesh idol procession waspnirmlAipH usilh lH<» ir«m/*rciAn rtfthe idol in the early hours this morning amid a tight police ban- j dobast.However, there ’ is still some tension prevailing in the city and the buses arc not plying since this morning.HOMEGUARD KILLED (PTI from Hyderabad): One Homcguard jawan was killed and at least six others were injured in a scries Of stabbing incidents today even as prohibitory orders were promulgated in four police stationlimits.At least 20 people were injured in police firing and stabbing incidents during the Ganesh immersion ceremony yesterday.According to police, three home-guards, who were in mufti, were stabbed by unidentified' persons near Yakutpura railway station. One of them died on way to hospital, while two others were admitted with serious injuries.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Clashes in NagpurThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 15, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Clashes in NagpurThe Times of India News ServiceNAGPUR, October 14: The police have promulgated prohibitory orders in some parts of old Nagpur city , following communal clashes. >Two petrol bombs were exploded by miscreants but no one was injured.Two auto-rickshaws, one police motor-cycle, one moped a few and bicycles were set on tire.The clashes followed the traditional pattern of. demanding the switching off of loudspeakers near a place of worship at the time of offering prayers. These would have spread further, but the Nagpur police commissioner, Mr P. S. Pathania, -arrived on the scene to control the situation. He immediately reinforced the police force in the area.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Violence unabated in Rohtas distThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Aug 22, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 22Violence unabated in Rohtas dist.The Times of India News ServiceSASARAM, August 21: Incidents of arson, violence nd stabbing con* tinued unabated despite the impost* tion of dusk-to-dawn curfew in this stife-torn town of RohtaS district, With the recovery of a body at Dhankaraha village, near here, today the toll since the outbreak of violence on August 17 has gone up to six< The Patna divisional commissioner, Mr N. K. Sinhsu told this correspondent that the curfew orders would remain in force till further orders. Scrfar, 165 people had been arrested.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Rourkela Situation Is Better: Trouble ElsewhereThe Times of India (1861-current); Mar 23, 1964; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1BHUBANESWAR, March 22. a and some others had been kept asI stand-by to meet emergency requirements.—P.T.LWHILE the situation in Rour-kela ^ recorded “further improvement'’ today, sporadic incidents of arson and looting took place in Sundargarh, Rajgangpur, Bisra. Birmitrapur and Launga in Sundargarh District of Orissa State, according to official reports.The official death-roll in.Rourkela and suburbs rose to 62 with reports of nine more deaths received today.The military, which has been in full control in Rourkela since yesterday, took control today of the Bisra area adjoining the steel town,TWO ROUNDS FIREDThe reports said there were no incidents in Rourkela today. But the military opened fire in the old town twice at two places, one round on each occasion, to scare away tiouble-makers.No death was reported in the firing.	.“Further relaxation” of tension in Brajrajnagar, Jharsuguda and Sambal-pur was officially reported.The report of one death due to knife injuries on Friday was received from the Jharsuguda police station area outside the town. -This was the lirst death reported from Sambalpur District in the current clashes.A press note issued by the Home Department of the Orissa Government tonight said that the 24-hour curfew, damped on Rourkela town yesterday, was further extended.Patrolling by the army and the police personnel who were, assisting it continued.The press note said that curfew was relaxed at Jharsuguda for lour hours between six and ten this morning.The State Government has however. decided not to relax the curfew in the town tomorrow in view of a case of arson during the relaxation of curfew.HOOLIGANS ARRESTEDThe press note said large-scale arrest of hooligans had been effected in the different affected areas, including 250 in Rourkela town.According to latest official reports, the police tired a total of 21 rounds in Rourkela on Friday night at three places. No death \\as repotted.’’Ihe prC'v note said that ‘'exemplary courage and a sen-e of sacrifice was shown hv the students ol Rourkela Fncineeting t.olleee during the dis-titibances. in gi'.ing .sheltei to . citizens evacuated lot safety horn the affected areas.••I he Suite (•'rovnnment, todav rush-. cd two pkm. loads of milk powdet to. Ronikela fot fh, ;i--e ol the evacuated eui/eii-.I .ilea official tepoti' siul die MtviKih o! the .military in Ro.nke’a v..»s iciniotccd today.	,Oiisvi militaty police petsonne! fan aimed'‘civil police force)', who had been sent to We-t Bengal during rioTs thete. had been ni-heJ back to 'Orissa ■o meet the situation, borne of them had been sent to the disturbed townsReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Communal Violence In U.PThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 15, 1988; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 8Communal Violence In U.P.One week after the latest eruption of communal violence in U.P., there is still no satisfactory explanation as to why it occurred only in a few pockets in western U.P., considering that the explosion was caused by a state-wide bandh called by the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP). The bandh, by all accounts, was fairly effective across the state. Why then did violence only occur in Muzaffarnagar, Aligarh and Khatauli? Clearly a conclusive explanation would have to await more in-depth information about the background and activities of communal organisations in the area. Meanwhile, however, available reports suggest that failure at the local administrative level could have been responsible for matters getting out of hand, particularly in Muzaffarnagar where 19 people were killed. Last Saturday’s VHP bandh had been called in protest against the proposed October 14 march to Ayodhya by leaders of the Babri Masjid action committee. The bandh had all the ingredients of communal trouble and yet the district authorities in Muzaffhmagar failed to deploy adequate forces as a precautionary measure. Violence broke out early that day in KJiatauli following attempts to force shopkeepers to down their shutters. But the district authorities acted decisively only in the evening because they were apparently busy at the farewell celebrations of the outgoing district magistrate!A similar reason might account for another outbreak of violence three days later, which followed a clash between a procession demanding the release of those arrested for the October 8 violence and the participants in a peace march. The administration, it would seem, let itself be intimidated by the fact that prominent among the trouble-makers was a leading supporter of a senior U.P. minister. Peace only returned after the army was called in, total curfew reim-- posed and more than 250 trouble-mongers, including the ^controversial supporter of the minister, taken into custody. That having been said, it must also be reiterated that leaders ‘ who comprise the Babri Masjid action committee have been playing with fire in their attempt to pressurise the government to accede to their demand. Three points should be obvious to the meanest intelligence. First, that tension on this count must be defused before any solution can be found to the contentious issue of the shnne. Secondly, that the solution has to be a compromise one which does not satisfy either side but one with which both parties can live with, for instance a return to the status as it obtained before 1986.' Thirdly, that such a solution in order to be accepted and to be effective calls for genuine calm.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Houses set ablaze at KopargaonThe Times of India (J86J-current); Sep 22, 1981; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Houses set ablaze at KopargaonKOPARGAON,, September 21 (UNI): Tension prevailed at Kopargaon, in Ahmednagar district, as an unruly mob went on a violent spree setting to fire to some shops, houses and a place of worship, according to the police.The police resorted to lathi-charge to control the violent mob which also indulged in stone-throwing. Oyer 150 persons^ were injured, the police told UNI. , i	'They said about 120 persons have so far been arrested.The . district collector,. Mr. Anil Kumar Lakhina, and senior police officials are camping in the city.Meanwhile, a ban on the assembly of persons and carrying of arms and ammunition was imposed on the city till tomorrow. ...	.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Police open fire on Karnataka mobOur Special CorrespondentThe Times of India (1861-current); May 14, 1983; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9Police open fire on Karnataka mobBy Our Special CorrespondentBANGALORE, May 13: The police opened fire at Malur in Kolar district today when a menacing crowd indulg-;d in arson and attacked a police station to demand the release of 23 people arrested yesterday in connection with widespread looting.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿52 held in Delhi riotsOur Staff CorrespondentThe Times of India (1861-current); Jul 8, 1982; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 952 held in Delhi riotsnv Anr Staff CorrespondentNEW DELHI, July 7:	Fifty-twcpersons have been arrested on charge ss of rioting, and arson following vio lent clashes in the Turkman Gate aret in the walled city last flight in whict at least 50 persons, including severa policemen, were injured.. Ampng the .injured....was iyir. surjit5ingh, additional commissioner of police, Delhi range, who was hit on the jaw and the right shoulder by a brickbat and a soda waiter botlc. He was rushed to a hospital and was discharged after first .aid. The rest of the injured, which included about 10 policemen, are reported to be pro* grossing in the hospitals.Over half a dozen shops were damaged and four vehicles, including a car and two scooters, set on fire' by the mob. The authorities described the situation as under control though tension still persisted in certain pockets. Senior residents of the area have been contacted and efforts were being made to diffuse the situation.According to the police, a number of persons went to the shop of Chancier Bhan in the Chandani Mahal area, after the evening, prayers to “break their roza.” When .the shopkeeper took long in serving tbeip, they moved to the nearby isliop oWned by Ashok. This led lo a quatrel between the two tea shop owners' which; soon developed into a scuffle. Among rite arrested are the two tea shop owners.. However, within a .few tflinutes* several miscreants spread a 'rumour that a communal clash had occurred and a number of people had been injured. Soon, agitated members of both the communities took to the narrpw streets and started exchanging brickbats and soda water bottles. Several shots were also fired from the roof-tons.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Six more killedPRAKASH JOSHI The Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); May 19, 1988; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 1By PRAKASH JOSHI The Times of India News ServiceAURANGABAD, May 18.THE Maharashtra government today issued shoot-at-sight orders to tne police as many parts of this curfew-bound city continued to reel under communal violence for the second consecutive day.According to PTI: Six persons wen killed in stabbings and subsequeni police firing today, taking the death rot m the violence which broke out hen yesterday to 11.Over 600 persons were taken int< custody since yesterday.The chief minister, Mr S. B. Chavan today held a meeting of the peaq committee along with the minister oi state for home, Mr J. T. Mahajan, anc appealed to the people to maintairpeace.Curfew was relaxed from 8 a.m. tc 11 am. in view of Ramzan Id. However, the violence escalated after the curfew was reimposed and 72 stabbing incidents were reported from several sensitive parts of the city, including Gulmandi and Aurangapura. Accord* ing to reports, stray incidents were also reported from Bidkni village, where the “gram-panchayat” is controlled by the Shiv Sena.The trouble began yesterday when a group of Shiy Sainiks returned from the high court which had reserved its decision on the plea against election ol the mayor. Riots began at noon and spread like wildfire in thickly-populated areas of the city. The police did not move for two hours, when the major part of the damage was done.The police reported ten major fires action against persons who had openly in the city today. A large oil depot was said they would set Aurangabad on fire, gutted.	The local MLA, Mr A Motiwala, saidMr Chavan reviewed the situation he had met Mr J. T. Mahajan at with the special inspector-general of Mantralaya last week and apprised him police (law and order), Mr S. P. Singh, of the situation but nothing was done, and ordered that stem action be taken Chaos prevailed at the government fiffiinsf trouble-makers.	hospital and no ambulances for carry-A total of 212 persons were arrested ing the injured were available. Rela-by the police on a charge of arson and lives of the injured complained of six more for attempted murder. House- shortage of blood at the hospital, to-house searches were conducted by Newsmen also had a hard time as the police and Rampuri knives, swords curfew passes were not issued to themand other weapons were seized	Continued on page 3Several tounsts were stranded at the airport, railway station and ST bus stands, as no vehicles were available.Mr Chavan has accepted a suggestion to ban the entry into Aurangabad city of leaders of communal organisations inciting violence. He said similar entry bans would be imposed on such leaders in other sensitive parts of the state.The state government will listen to the tape-recorded conversation at a meeting of Shiv Sena leaders here and will accordingly take action.The total Mure of the state administration, particularly of the police, in dealing with the violence was criticised by leaders of all political parties. They accused the police of “criminal negligence”.The situation on the day of the municipal elections on April 17 was equally explosive, but the police had then handed it with a firm hand.Yesterday no adequate arrangements were made even dough people were openly talking in court about the likely eruption of violence.Mr Sahebrao Dongaonkar, Congress MP from Aurangabad, demanded stemReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.Condoned from Page 1after reimposition of the curfew. Th< Central Telegraphic Office (CTO) waj also hot working.PTI adds; The police said 50 round; .were fired in all to disperse the mob: indulging in assault, arson and lootingThe firing took place at the Roshai Gate, and Baijipura areas during the four-hour curfew relaxation period this morning.Oar staff reporter in Bombay adds: There were no repercussions to the communal flare-up in Aurangabad in the city and suburbs. The situation was under total control, Mr V. 1C Saraf police commissioner, said.He said immediate precautions and arrangements had been taken as soon as the police intelligence received information of communal riots breaking out in Aurangabad.Though the city and suburbs have had no history of communal flare-ups on Id days, a quick assessment was made and extreme precautionary measures taken to avert any untoward incidents.The police strength at vulnerable points and dense Muslim localities were beefed up especially along Mohammed Ali road, Nagpada, Agripada and other Muslinwlomi-nated areas of the city.Heaivy patrolling of places where large congregations assembled for prayers like at Anjuman-e-Islam high school grounds and Azad maidan was carried out in the morning by detachments of the police and the SRP.MrSarafsaid 3,500 additional police personnel were deployed to the normal availability of 15,900 men. Besides, four SRP companies (120 men in eachcompany) were also drafted for ban-dobast duty.2ND BANDH (UNI from Kolhapur): The silver industry town of Hupari, 30 km from here, observed a bandh for the second successive day yesterday in protest against police lathi-charges on innocent people on Saturday.The clahses between rival groups were sparked off by a religious dispute. The police used lathi-charge to disperse the warring groups.Thirty-four persons were arrested on Saturday and Sunday. They were brought before the magistrate on Monday and remanded in custody for seven days.The Shiv Sena called for the bandh in Hupari today also to protest against the police lathi-charge and to demand the unconditional release of those arrested.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿42 Arrested In Jharia: CHARGE OF RIOTINGThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 8, 1955; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9Bihar42 Arrested In JhariaCHARGE OF RTOTING“TIip 'I'imes of India” News .ServicePATNA, September 7:	Oneperson was killed and nearly a dozen policemen injured on Monday at Jharia in a clash between policemen and angry demonstrators who hurled stones and brickbats as a protest against the ban on Indian film.The film had been banned on August 29 by the authorities on the ground that it was likely to create bitterness against a particular community.Mr. Bhagwat Tripati, a labour leader, has been on hunger-strike outside the Bihar Talkies since September 1 as a protest against the ban.A Press Note issued by the Bihar Government late last night said that one person was brought unconscious to the civil hospital on the night of September 5 with serious head injuries.He succumbed to his injuries shortly afterwards. The postmortem examination revealed that there were pellets of lead in his head, which suggested that the weapon used was a shot gun and not a rifle. Further inquiries are being made.,42 ARRESTSMeanwhile, 42 persons have been arrested in this connection and cases instituted against them for rioting.The Press Note said that, despite the promulgation of Section 144, a large crowd of hooligans collected in front of the Bihar Talkies on September 5 and demanded the stoppage of the show of another picture, which was being screened at the time.Upon refusal by the authorities, the crowd began hurling stones and brickbats at the picture house causing considerable damage to it.A section of the mob in front of the Deshbandhu Talkies was challenged by a small force which resorted to a mild lathi charge after persuasion had failed to disperse the demonstrators.In the stone-throwing which followed, an Inspector of Police was reported to have been hit on his forehead. Four constables also received head injuries.Finding that the police force was likely to be overwhelmed by the demonstrators, the sub-divisional officer who was present with the police party, ordered the armed force to fire. Eleven rounds were fired whereupon the mob dispersed.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Arson and stoning continue in PuneThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); May 2, 1988; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1The Times of India News ServiceBPUNE, May 1. URNING of shops and throwing of stones con-lilted between 6.00 a.m. and 10.00 a.m. on Monday. The 48-hour curfew, which began on Saturday, is scheduled to end at 10.00 a.m. on Monday.inued for the second day today n Pune even in the areas where he authorities had clamped a 18-hour curfew yesterday.The trouble broke out following the reported desecration of an idol in a place of worship in the busy central Pune on Saturday morningTension mounted today m one of the areas under curfew as hundreds of people gathered at a temple.After the midnight of Saturday, incidents of arson took place in several areas. They included the burning of a readymade clothes stores and a shop of electrical appliances. At some places, groups of people tried to damage places of worship, but the police foiled their attempts.Mr Mathur said though the situation in central Pune was tense, it was well under control. Since the incident of desecration, there were 12 cases of arson and 16 cases of stone-throwing that were repotted to the police. So far, 68 persons had been arrested.He said during the past two-days, 16 persons were injured in stone-throwing. However, there was no stabbing incident.The areas which have remained incident-free are the Cantonment and the Pimpri-Chinchwad-Bhosari industrial belt.blaze. The loss of property could not b< ascertained.PT1 adds: The police have urged “responsible citizens” to keep a watcl at sensitive places in their areas and discourage rumour mongering leading to trouble.BANDHS OBSERVEDThe news of yesterday’s sacrilege spread to all the areas around Pune and in nearby districts. Bandhs were observed at different places.In the city, incidents of stone-throwing and arson also took place in the non-curfew areas. In Yerwada, the Shiv Sena, Patit Pa van Sanghatana and a traders’ organisation gave the bandh calL There were incidents of stoning PMT buses, and as a result, vehicular traffic came to halt for about an hour.In another non-curfew area of Gokhale Nagar, a group of young men attacked a police patty- The police acted quickly and arrested six persons. At Kothrud, some people formed an unlawful assembly in front of a place of worship. But the police dispersed them.The police lifted the curfew on Sunday morning between 6.00 a.m. and 7.00 a.m. and only women were allowed to come out This was done to enable them to buy milk and other essentials.The deputy police commissioner of police, Mr S. C. Mathur, today told newsmen that the curfew would beDespite the communal tension, the industrial workers observed “May Day*'. The trade unions affiliated to AITUC, CTTU and Sarva Shramik Sangh took out a procession. Shouting slogans of international solidarity of the working class, they condemned communal clashes.The state transport employees’ unions affiliated to the INTUC held their convention at the Congress House.Meanwhile, the RSS chief; Mr Balasaheb Deoras, today visited the temple of Dagdu Halwai Ganapati and offered prayers. Later, he addressed a private function at which he made no mention of the situation in the city.UNI adds: Two toy shops belongingto the Pune municipal corporation standing committee chairman, Mr Rashid Khan, were destroyed in a fire in the densely-populated Revivarpeth locality and a place of worship was burnt in another locality last nightA paints shop was gutted in fire on the Pune-Satara road, and efforts to set afire a religious place in Bibewadi locality was made last nightDEORAS SHOCKEDThe RSS chie^Mr Balasaheb Deoras expressed shock over die incident o desecration of the Ganapati idol an< said it was infuriating.He said it was an onslaught on th< honour of Hindus made by some anti' national elements. All those connecter with the inculent should note that thii would not be tolerated, he warned.Mr Deoras, whp arrived in Punt today, immediately went to the Dagdi Halwai {temple and offered prayers Huge crowds were present in ant around the temple at the time of hi visit.Accused in Rajiv murder plot deadNEW YORK, May 1 (PTI): Ai alleged Sikh extremist for whom at international alert had been issuer three years ago in connection with j plot to assassinate the Prime Minister Mr Rajiv Gandhi, during a visit to th< United States, has died, according to { published reportDalbir Singh died in an accident in the Seattle area on March 25 when the pick-up truck he was riding collided with another vehicle, the California-bsaefilndia West weekly reported in it* latest issue, quoting the police.The fire brigade had a tough time last night attending to about 20 calls, including the one which required the rushing of 15 fire-tenders to contain theDalbir Singh, who used alias “Am-mand Singh”, “Jagtar Singh” and “Amar Nath”, was chiged along witi Lai Singh LaUy and G. S. Birk with conspiring to loll Mr Gandhi, sobcrtinf another person for the act, conspiring to possess fire-arms and transport explosives.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿CPM, CPI at daggers drawnThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Aug 18, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 5The Times of India, News ServiceCALCUTTA, August 17: Fresh tension has developed between the CPM and the CPI within West Bengal’s ruling Left Front. The CPM’s organ, Ganashakti,came out with a front-page news item, stating that the CPI deputy mayor, Mr Mani Sanyal, had secretly forwarded some compiaints against the Left Front government and the Calcutta police to the Unioii minister of state for home, Mr Santosh Mohan Dev.The complaints were similar to what Mr Sanyal had made against the government and the police m respect of the “Kundlia House Collapse” incident in Calcutta, the paper alleged.Mr Sanyal and the state’s urban development minister, Mr Bud-dhadeb Bhattacharya, had bandied words over Mr SanyaPs criticism of the Calcutta police commissioner for having allowed the shooting of a film in the police commissioner’s chamber in the Lalbazar headquarters of the police.The film was produced by Mr Pradip Kundlia, whom the police were then searching in connection with the house collapse at Bhowanipore which killed 11 people.Mr Kundlia was the promoter of the ill-fated building.Asked to comment on the forwarding of the letter by Mr Sanyal to the Union minister, the West Bengal Chief minister Mr JyotiVBasu, said, “the person has no self-respect. What more can one say about the matter.” The other Left Front partners refused to comment on the matter just now.On being contacted, Mr Sanyal said he had received an anonymous letter containing some allegations against Mr Pradip Kundlia’s brother. Since the allegation referred to passport offences and these had nothing to do with the state govem-;ment, he had forwarded the anonymous letter to the Union minister, after duly consulting his party leaders. He said the allegation against Mr Padip Kundlia’s brother was that he had two passports in two names, “Biren” and “Vinod” Kundlia.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿100 houses burnt in Islampur: Basu's statementThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jul 25, 1969; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 11100 houses burnt in Islampur:Basu’s statement^tha Times -of India” News ServiceCALCUTTA, July 24: The Deputy Chief Minister. Mr. Jyoti Basu, said in Che State Assembly today that 100 tmuses were burnt in six villages in Che Islampur sub-division of West Dinajpur district in Tuesday’s rioting.Besides, nine people were killed and several injured.In response to a call-attention notice by three Congress members, he said the trouble started at Kanki village where .some shops were looted, houses burnt and their inmates assaulted on Imesday morning. Two people were killed and several injured. The rioters dispensed on the arrival of the police.‘'Unfortunately, the victims belon-• ged to a minority community while the assailants belonged to .the majority community. This factor might have riven a communal complexion to the developments that followed.” .E. PAK REFUGEESRetaliation took, place in Bidhan-palli, Nizampur and Sagarpur villages whose residents were mostly refugees from East Pakistan. In these incidents, two people were killed several injured and many houses burnt. t The retaliation against these inci-. dents took place in Madhusikar and■	Baishbigha villages where five were killed, besides injuries to some. There were several cases of arson. . •. Mr. Basu said the jtolice had to fire rive rounds at Bidh'anpalli and one round at Madhusikar. There were no casualties.	'	.Yesterday also, one incident iook place at Kanzia village where two houses were burnt. Since then no incidents appeared to have taken place.POLICE PRECAUTIONSMr. Basu said strong police reinforcements had been despatched to the . affected areas. A dusk-to-dawn curfew had been imposed on the entire Chaltu-lia police area. Three relief centres had been opened.The immediate cause of the trouble,■	according to Mr.. Basu, was the imposition of a fine of Rs. 500 by some people of Kanki village on a person •for an alleged criminal assault by his brother on a woman three months ago.The compensation was not paid, andt two groups were formed in the village,[ on Monday, a leading member of one | of the groups was assaulted, and on | the following day. there was wider spread rioting.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Palej nightmare recalledA Staff ReporterThe Times of India (1861-current); May 4, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 3By A Staff ReporterBOMBAY. Mav 3.*00 terrified even to whimper, the thin four-year-oldSmitesh cowered in the shade of the Ferozepur-Janata Express, halted at Palej in Gujarat, and watched a group of 20 men beat his father to death, frenziedly shouting slogans all the while, onSome of these appeared to have been armed with knives and choppers and according to Mr Mehta, an engineer with PCS Data Products in Bombay, they even managed to overpower the five Railway policemen travelling in the bogies, and snatched away their bayonets from them.the atiernoon of April 3U.His father, Mr Chandrahas Juratkar, 32, was a “full-time party worker” with the Bharatiya Janata Party, on his way to Delhi to participate in the Kashmir Bachao rally, along with some 200 party workers.So shattering was the experience that the boy was literally struck dumb, and has spoken very little since, according to his relatives.Mr -Pinakin Mehta, the North Bombay president of the BJP Yuva Morcha, found it no less shattering: he himself was dragged out of a bogie and set upon by a group of about 1S, wielding lathis. His nose was broken in the attack, and his body is today a mass of welts and bruises, slowly turning green and yellow.Recounting his experience, Mr Mehta says that the train- halted at Palej, a little town midway between Bharuch .and Baroda, around 2.30 p.m. ,As they had done at a number of other stops along the route, the BJP party, travelling , in two contiguous carriages, began shouting slogans “Kashmir Bachao, desh bachao!”A group of around 40 m^n standing at the station were apparently incensed by this, and began hurling stones at the carriages, Mr Mehta said. The BJP workers hastily pulled down the shutters and windows and the group outside slowly grew to close to 500.	.his foetus-like position, and limped slowly away. ,Mr Mehta insists that had the policemen acted earlier, they might have been able even to save Mr Juvatkar, and certainly the number of wounded might have been lower.The frightened guards ran off, Mr Mehta says, and the men, the force of whose stones had shattered both metal shutters and glass panes, used the layonets to slash through the canvas walls and roof of the connecting corridor between the two bogies.The flimsy bolt on the door broke, and now they climbed into the carriage. They forced out first Mr Juvatkar, and then another worker, Mr Dinkar Dalvi.Five members of the party, including Mr Mehta were so seriously injured that they had to return to Bombay. Besides Mr Dalvi, wjho had some teeth knocked out in the melee, there were Mr Kashinath Gionkar, Mr Ranjan Sawant, and Mr J tendra Ghadigaonkar. All were treat© 1 at the M. Sayajirao hospital in Baroda, though the post-mortem on Mr Juvatkar was carried out jat the Bharuch general hospital.In the carriage, all was pandemonium, with many of the 50 women crying and a number of young people weeping. Cries of desperation: '‘What is to become of us?” filled the air, and the passengers had all gathered at the far end of the carriage. At the other end, the looting and rifling of their possessions began, and slogans like “Kashmir ko hum nahin denge, lekin Pakistan yahan banayenge,” only heightened their fears.About half way through the three hour-long ordeal, Mr Mehta was forced out of his carriage, and led away from the train.His bag, watch,] and chain were seized, and 15 or 20 men set to work, thrashing him with lathis, and crying . out: “Khalas kar do!”Then, “like a God,” a policeman appeared from out of nowhere, and shouted out that he was going .to shoot the miscreants, loudly asking a companion for his pistol to emphasise the point. The gang vanished, and Mehta, thankful for this belated rescue, uncurled himself fromA passenger caught up in the strife, Mr Gopal Sharma, was on his way to a sister's wedding, and had a sum of Rs 19,000 with him, all of which was •taken away.Some members of the group assert that the bogies were even doused with petrol preparatory to setting them afire.Others say that a little before the police turned up at the site, groups of the miscreants were seen being warned off by a policeman, That the ambush was preplanned they deduce from the fact that the train driver was pulled out and threatened.But these are only academic questions now for Ms Smita Juvatkar, 22, and her three children, Smitesh (4), Roopali (3) and Rupesh (1). Their hiKband, father, and sole bread-winner (sources said tonight that his only earnings were his Rs 500 honorarium from his work with the BJP) is dead, and though the two elder children may be staying with their paternal uncle at his home, Ms Juvatkar finds herself alone ina hut full of memories, photographs — and grief.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿2 revenue dists for cityA Stan ReporterThe Times of India (J86J-current); Oct 2, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1By A Staff ReporterBOMBAY, October 1: Greater Bombay will be bifurcated into two revenue districts from October 4. The chief minister, Mr Shared Pawar, will inaugurate the new district, called Bombay suburban district (BSD), on that day at Bandra (east).The new district will cover the suburbs and extended suburbs of Greater Bombay and will house a population of nearly 65 lakhs, making it the largest district in the state as far as population is concerned. It will be spread over an area of nearly 400 sq. km.The district will have three Lok Sabha and 17 assembly constituencies, in addition to 23 wards of the BMC and 40 police stations. Its territory will start from Bandra to Kurla. Mr Suresh Salvi, at present additional collector of Bombay, will be the first collector of the new districtThe revenue minister, Mr Sudhakar Naik, made this announcement here today. He said the , offices of the BSD will be located at the BMRDA building at the Bandra-Kurla complex for the present. Subsequently, a new building would be constructed in the area to house the collectorate of the BSD.Replying to a question, he said the BSD would soon have its own district planning and development council (DPDC). He added that some more districts in the state were proposed to be bifurcated in view of the increasing population and workload. He mentioned Thane, Nasik, Pune and Ahmednagar districts in this connection.4	killed, curfew in Gonda townLUCKNOW, Cot. 1 (UNI): An indefinite curfew was clamped on Gonda town in Uttar Pradesh at least four people were killed and over 30 injured in communal riots last night.Reports reaching here said , property worth lakhs of rupees was damaged in arson.The administration immediately imposed curfew and rounded up about 150 anti-social elements. The situation was “tense but under control,” a report said.1Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Seven die in Bengal clashThe Times of India (J86J-current); Sep 8, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 14Seven die inBengali clashCALCUTTA, September 7 (PTI): At least seven persons were killed and 16 others injured, two seriously, when the police fired 22 rounds ito disperse two warring groups at Kamalpur village in West Bengal’s Malda district yesterday.The rival groups, which clashed over taking out a religious procession, indulged in heavy, brickbatting, resulting in injuries to 17 police personnel, including two officers, according to a delayed report reaching here today.Prohibitory orders under section 144 Cr. P.C. have been promulgated in the village. Thirty arrests were made.Meanwhile, the situation in the city’s. Garden Reach area, the scene of Saturday’s police firing following a row over,a Muharram procession, was peacefultoday.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Tear-Gas Used On Rioting Mob At Bidar TownThe Times of India New ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Feb 16, 1967; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg. 12“The Times of India” News ServiceBANGALORE. FebniArv 15T OOTING, arson and rioting broke out on polling day today at Bidar town where the rival candidates, Mr. Maqsood Ali Khan (Congress), Mysore;? Deputy Minister for Mines and Geology, and Mr. Chandrakanth Gurbasappa (Jan Sangh) were in a straieht contest!1for an Assembly seat.i' Stone-throwing mobs clashed wit] the police,_ looted a pan-bidi shop ii r Osmanganj, Bidar’s shopping centre - and set fire to it, reports received hen a said. .The police used tear-gas to dispersi 1 the menacing crowds. Reinforcement! were rushed to Bidar from GulbargaThe Deputy Commissioner ol Bidar district told “The Times oi India” News Sendee over trunk tele' phone that despite the incidents, poll ing was uninterrupted.	.testants for the Assembly and five forParliament.Women turned up in large numbers both in Mysore City and in rural areas.Polling was heavy exceeding 70 per cent, in the Periyapatna constituency.BAN FOR WEEKThe situation was brought undet control quickly and the percentage of polling was about 60, he said.He blamed anti-social elements for the trouble;An order prohibiting the carrying of weapons for a week was promulgated in Bidar.One of the causes for the tension is stated to be that some polling agents insisted on identifying persons in burkha as women voters. This was resented by another section.What was described as a “minor incident” of arson was reported from Belgaum. A stationary lorry in a garage was burned down, the report said. Polling, however, was unaffected.The contenders for the Belgaum Assembly seat are Mr. B. B. Patil (Congress) and Mr. B. B. Sayanak (Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti).Mr. Sayanak, a lawyer, is Mr. Path's sole challenger. Three other Maharashtrian candidates, who had originally filed their nominations, retired in favour of Mr. Sayanak.DEMOCRATIC METHODPolling in the remaining Assembly constituencies, totalling 117, and 15 parliamentary constituencies was reported to be brisk and peaceful.Belgaum, Karwar, Mysore and Mandya were among the places where about 70 per cent, of the electorate were estimated to have excr-eisd their franchise.A good many of 3,000-odd Tibetan refugees, settled near Periyapatna in Mysore district, turned up in their traditional costume to watch frith interest the polling in nearby booths. A representative of the Tibetan nationals said he would very much like the same democratic method of elections followed in his country.“The day may not be far off,” he j remarked, pensively,;Mangalore: The Udipi Lok Sabha constituency, comprising eight Assembly . constituencies in South Ka-uara, went to the polls today.Four candidates contested the Lok Sabha seat — Congress, PSP, Swa-tantra and -one Independent; and the Congress contested all eight Assembly ■seats.WOMEN IN BURKHAThe Health Minister, Mr. Nagappa Alva, is seeking re-election to the Assembly from the Surathkal constituency. He was involved in a straight fight with Mr. P. V. Aithala, a PSP candidate.Polling passed off peacefully.Large numbers of women turned up at all polling stations to cast their ballots. Women in burkha lined up at polling centres in« predominantly-Muslim areas.Belgaum: Mr. Nath Pai, Praia-Socialist member of Parliament, was among the early voters here today.Long queues of men and women were seen outside the 68 polling booths in Belgaum. .Mysore: There was heavy to moderate polling in the rural areas of Mysore district. In the city itself, polling did not exceed 50 per cent, and in some parts it was only 30 per cent., according to the returning officers.Eight Assembly constituencies and one parliamentary constituency went to the polls today. There are 32 con-Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Violence again in Palangur, 4 hurtThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Feb 7, 1986; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Violence again inThe Times of India News ServiceAHMEDABAD, February 6: Three police personnel were injured and a man was stabbed in fresh violence in Palanpur town in Banaskantha district in north Gujarat.According to intormation; reacmng the police control-room here, a man was stabbed during the curfew relaxation period in the morning. Soon a mob attacked the people of another community in the bazar area of Palanpur. The mob also indulged in stonethrowing at the police who rushed to the scene. The police men hurt included a sub-inspector.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Rs. 15-crore loan is a grantedThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jun 3, 1968; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Rs. 15-crore loanis grantedWASHINGTON, June 2.HTHE United States, Export Import Bank today announced it had loaned the Indian Government 20 million dollars (Rs. 15 crores) to finance purchases of. U.S. equipment and related services.The, purchases are expected to include manufacturing machinery, mining, drilling, earthmoving, construction, agricultural and transportation equipment.The loan is repayable in 24 semiannual instalments beginning in 1971 with interest of six per cent.—Reuter.13 arrested in HyderabadHYDERABAD, June 2:	Thirteenpersons, including three legislators belonging to the i Majlis Ittehadul Musleemen, and the president of the city Jana Sangh, Mr. Chaganlal Vijaya-vargi, were taken into custody this morning under the Preventive Detn-tion Act.The city, which witnessed incidents of stone-throwing and arson yesterday and Friday following at stabbing incidenHf was peaceful today. Intense. police patrolling was continuing. 1Mr. Ai Lakshminarayana, * vicepresident, and Mr. V. Rama Rao, MLC, secretary, Andhra Pradesh Jana Sangh, in a joint statement today characterised the arrest of Jana Sangh leaders as a “conspiracy”.. to malign the Jana Sangh. —P.T.I,Dust-storm lashes PatnaPATNA June 2: A dust-storm followed, by thundershowers lashed the town this evening.Lightning struck an electric pole near a local newspaper , building^ plunging the area into total darkness: Trees and telegraph poles were uprooted. Telephone lines were disconnected.The mercury fell further1 today.— U.N.I.	.Search for Scorpion•NORFOLK (Virginia), June 2: The U.S. Navy today pinned its dwindling hopes of locating the missing nifclear-powered submarine Scorpion on two miniature deeptdiving submersibles that were to join the intensive search.	.The submersibles—the Navy’s advanced; diving system ADS-4 and a four-man submarine—were to be taken aboard) two salvage ships.the Azotes to joirt the search 360 miles south of the islands, the Navy’ saidBut the Navy said the search will be narrowed before the sophisticated equipment aboard the submersibles is used.t The Scorpion, with 99 officers and men aboard, was last heard from on May 21 when it radioed from south of the, Azores that it was proceeding to Norfolk. It was officially declared missing on May 27.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿FIVE KILLED AND TEN HURT IN CLASH IN BIHAR: VIOLENT CROWD ATTACKS ...The Times of India (1861-current); Oct 18, 1956; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1FIVE KILLED ANDTEN HURT INDUMKA (Bihar), October 17. I^iviu persons were killed and ten injured in a clash and police firing in Sahibganj last night when a procession with six images of the goddess Durga was being taken out, according to an official report received at the district headquarters of Santhal Parganas here. Three Were killed as a result of police firing.The report said that a violent mob attacked the procession near a mosque. Hand-to-hand fighting followed, resulting in the death of two persons.A magistrate and a police constable accompanying the procession were among the ten injured during theclash.Later, the police opened fire to disperse the mob which attempted to break the images.The report said that the quarrel started over the playing of music and firing of crackers by the members of the procession, but it was patched up at the intervention of officials. But when the procession moved again, it was suddenly attacked and rioting started.EIGHT ARRESTEDOfficial reports received here in Patna tonight said eight persons had been arrested at Sahibganj till 4 p.m. today in connection with last night’s clash.The Commissioner of Bhagal-pur division, the Deputy Inspector-General of Police, Eastern Range, the Deputy Commissioner and the Superintendent of Police of Santhal Parganas are camping in Sahibganj with police reinforcements. Arrangements are being made today for the immersion of the images which were left on the road last night.Some of the images were disfigured or damaged and some houses and shops were burnt or looted, the report said.PRECAUTIONARY STEPSPrecautionary measures have been tightened, and the situation is reported to be returning to normal,A Bihar Government press note- issued tonight giving the genesis of the trouble said an altercation over display of fireworks was followed by the throwing of brickbats, glass bottles, hot water and other missiles on the images and the procession, and this led to general rioting.The police had to resort to firing after a constable and an Assistant Sub-Inspector of Police had been injured. The question of assistance and relief to the affected persons and families was receiving urgent attention, the press note added.—P.T.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿CPM, CPI at daggers drawnThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Aug 18, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 5The Times of India, News ServiceCALCUTTA, August 17: Fresh tension has developed between the CPM and the CPI within West Bengal’s ruling Left Front. The CPM’s organ, Ganashakti,came out with a front-page news item, stating that the CPI deputy mayor, Mr Mani Sanyal, had secretly forwarded some compiaints against the Left Front government and the Calcutta police to the Unioii minister of state for home, Mr Santosh Mohan Dev.The complaints were similar to what Mr Sanyal had made against the government and the police m respect of the “Kundlia House Collapse” incident in Calcutta, the paper alleged.Mr Sanyal and the state’s urban development minister, Mr Bud-dhadeb Bhattacharya, had bandied words over Mr SanyaPs criticism of the Calcutta police commissioner for having allowed the shooting of a film in the police commissioner’s chamber in the Lalbazar headquarters of the police.The film was produced by Mr Pradip Kundlia, whom the police were then searching in connection with the house collapse at Bhowanipore which killed 11 people.Mr Kundlia was the promoter of the ill-fated building.Asked to comment on the forwarding of the letter by Mr Sanyal to the Union minister, the West Bengal Chief minister Mr JyotiVBasu, said, “the person has no self-respect. What more can one say about the matter.” The other Left Front partners refused to comment on the matter just now.On being contacted, Mr Sanyal said he had received an anonymous letter containing some allegations against Mr Pradip Kundlia’s brother. Since the allegation referred to passport offences and these had nothing to do with the state govem-;ment, he had forwarded the anonymous letter to the Union minister, after duly consulting his party leaders. He said the allegation against Mr Padip Kundlia’s brother was that he had two passports in two names, “Biren” and “Vinod” Kundlia.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Ahmedabad firing claims two livesThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jan 7, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Ahmedabad firing claims two livesThe Times of India News ServiceAHMEDABAD, Jan. 6: Two persons were killed and seven injured in police firing, stabbing and stonethrowing in a fresh spurt of violence ; in the Gomtipur area this afternoon. Curfew was reimposed in the entire area at 3.45 p.m.The trouble started near Ashoknagar when some miscreants j indulged in stone-throwing. Soon | group clashes followed and heavy brickbatting was reported.The police fired 38 rounds and lobbed 38 teargas shells, killing one and injuring two.A 200-strong mob came out on the road near Amrapali theatre and went on a rampage and indulged in heavy stone-throwing in which three persons were injured.A series of arson cases was also reported. Three houses were looted and set on fire near Sutharwada and Gajanan-ni-Chawl. At least three shops were set ablaze by the angry mob. Even fire tenders were attacked. IReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿7 held in Surat under TADAThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Apr 22, 1993; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 7The Times of India Ner/o ServiceSURAT, April 21: The Surat citypolice have arrested at least seven people under the Terrorists and Disruptive Activities Act (TADA) for desecrating a religious place in the Mugalisara area of the city on Sunday night.' Panic prevailed in the bustling Chauta Pul area of the city in central Surat on Tuesday morning as a group of youth went around asking shopkeepers to down their shutters. A parked scooter was also set on fire.Talking to the TOINS, the city _ police commissioner, Mr Ra-jeshwar Sibbal, said that patrolling had been intensified and the situ* ation was totally under control. -According to the police, some v youths, who had come to.; Mugalisara to participate in a mar--riage, got drunk and damaged one:., of the revered idols and also de-': secreated the temple.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿SDM killed in MaunathBhanjanThe Times of India (J86J-current); Oct 9, 1984; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1SDM killed in MaunathBhanjanGORAKHPUR, October 8 (UNI) t The situation in the curfew-bound Maunath Bhanjan town in Azamgarh district, which was the scene of communal clashes last ■ week, turned serious today when a sub-divisional magistrate was shot dead this afternoon. .According to the deputy inspector general of police, (Gorakhpur range), Mr Ram Arsey, a chid was reported to have been killed in a case of arson and three people were stabbed ill the town. No other details were available immediately.Curfew was imposed in Maunath Bhajan and Pahasu town . of Buland-shahr district last week after com-inunjal clashes erupted during . the Dussehra celebrations. The. situation in Pahasu was reported to be normal.The incidents of violence occurred in Maunath Bhanjan when the curfew was relaxed between 12 noon and 2 p.m. today.BrieflyPlan forquake-proofhousesExperts from 24 nations have gathered in New Delhi to discuss plans and codes of building construction in disaster-prone areas. The exercise is to plan and build such houses as can survice earthquakes, floods, cyclones and other natural disasters. — Page 7Labour meetThe British opposition' Labour Party has condemned the government policy on South Africa and Argentina.—Page 9.	•Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿4	killed in Delhi rioting, army outThe Time of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); May 23, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1The Time* of India New* ServiceNEW DELHI. Mav 22TROOPS moved into the walled city ateas after a fresh wave of violence , during the curfew relaxation tfyis afternoon, in which four ' persons were killed and over 80 injured.	'	.. The police commissioner, Mr Ved Marwah,: told newsmen tonight that the army has been called out in the walled city and curfew reimposed in (^Handni Mahal, Jama Masjid, Hauz Qazi, Town Hall and Kotwali areas.	’Mr Marwah said the police fired 28 rounds at six places and lobbed 52 tcargas shells after lathicharges failed to control the rampaging mobs which numbered 30,000 to 40,000 ’at Jamla May id and 20,000 at Falehpuri.. 1 He said the trouble started soon after the Friday prayers. Slogan-shouting mobs ransacked shops and set them afire-in the Hauz Qazi area.Soon the* trouble spread to the nearby Matia Mahal, Kucha Pandit, Churi Walan and Katra Giftlam Mohammd localities.	'He said 125 people were arrested on charges of rioting.At least 40 shops were gutted and six two-wheelers tbrehed, Mr Marwah said. ,	,	a.He said the situation, “though still .tense,” was under control and thepolice force in the entire capital had been put on alert.	1“We are ‘taking no chances and several columns- of th^ army have already moved in to Sadar Bazar, Hauz Qazi, Turkman: Gate, and Chandni Chowk areas while morel are standing by.” 1 ■.	'	• .Meerut riots unabated12 MORE KILLED (PTI): In a fresh spurt of violence, 12 persons \ycrc killed in clashes, a powerful bomb exploded in the heart of Meerut city and two factories were set ablaze as the official toll in the continued communal violence rose to 57 today.	’Of the 12 casualties, nine persons were killed in clashes and a bomb Explosion and three bodies of those killed in earlier incidents were recovered, official sources said (latc tonight.	»	.The situation was officially stated to be still “tense,” as the U.P. government moved a posse of400 policemen, reven superintendents of police and 13 deputy superintendents of police tb the not-' tom city.	'Violence spread to the outskirts of Meerut city as incidents of arson and looting-’ were reported from Kakra Khcra Basti artd kasheru Kliera. Two persons were killed and seven injured in Ihc clashes.	.	’The Uiiion hopie minister, Mr Buta Singh, who visited Meerut for an on-thc-spoDassessment, ruled out handing over, the city to the army, saying the steps taken by the district administration were effective. '	-The violence, he said, seemed to b< “pre-planned” considering the “abnormal dimensions” it had assumed.BUKHARI'S SERMON (TOINS) The Shahi Imam of Jama Masjid, Syed Abdullah Bukhari, today appealed. K the congregation to desist from raisini slogans and cautioned them from railing prey to the designs of certain elements to foment trouble.Addressing the congregation on th< last Friday of the .month of Ramzan the Shahi imam saiid he was fpr an cn< to the troubled situation lit the oountry He blamed the Delhi administrate! for letting the. situation deteriorate tt such an extent that many devoteei were unable to attend the prayers.The Imam accused the Muslin leaders who were in government o being-indifferent to the plight of th community, ' He said that all th Muslim ministers should resign ii order to convey to the governmen their sentiments. 'f \	,	:	’MADHOK’SCHARGE (UNIj: Th< Bharatiye, Jan Sanglr blamed the Central leadership for the communal flare up in Meerut and said there was.’i growing impression that; it was ilweai and amenable to violent pressure'*.In a statement issued1 in Delhi, the party president, - Prof Bplnu Madhok said <jollcctive fines and deterrent punishment should be imposed on tnosri indulging -in anti-national activitiei ahd warned that any other'policy 61 appeasement would be Counter-productive. 1Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Two killed in Bengal firingThe Times of India (J86J-current); Nov 10, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 3Two killed in Bengal firingCALCUTTA, November 9 (PTI): At least two persons were killed and six others were injured in a group clash and subsequent police firing at Badarhat in West Bengal’s North 24-Parganas district today, according to an official report.The sources said trouble started when a large number of people gheraoed the police station demanding the release of one person, arrested in connection with the attack on places of worship near Harba on November 6.The mob turned violent and attacked the police station with brickbats and other missiles, theReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Fire Loss 1 -- No TitleThe Times of India (1861-current); Mar 28, 1964; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1were killed and six injured. Fire was opened when looting	and acts ofarson were in progress.Several hundreds have been evacuated from interior	villages andbrought to Chaibasa	under policeescorts.—P.T.l.Adivasi Mobs Fired OnPATNA, March 27: Tire police opened fire on a violent mob of Adivasis in the thana headquarters of Bano Insimdega sub-division, Ranchi District, last night killing two, according to an official report here.Troops also opened fire on another Adivasi mob in Jaldcgn village, in' Bano thana, last night killing one, the report added. There verc no reports of other incidents in the district.Troops also opened fire last • night on an unruly tribal mob near Sint-diri.One person was killed and two were injured.The police also opened fire at Jagannathpur and Barkjamda in the interior of Singhbhum Distiict on tribal mobs in which two personsReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Bihar riots spread to rural areasThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 29, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Bihar riots spread to rural areasThe Times of India News ServiceBHAGALPUR, Oct. 28.EVEN as curfew was relaxed for four hours this morning to enable people to buy essentials, there were disconcerting reports of the riots spreading to rural areas.Briefing newsmen this morning, the officer on special duty in control oflawandorder.MrA. K. Singh, said ;15 houses at Radhanagar village had been burnt. Reports from Rajpur under the Sabour block said a tractor had been set on fire. ,According to Mr Singh, houses had been burnt at Puraini village under the Jagdishpur block.He added that two people were killed at Radhanagar, while one person was killed in police firing at Nath' Nagar. With these deaths the toll has risen to 143.At Tatarpur, some 5,000 people of the minority community stalled an army convoy, demanding provisions. Brigadier Vijay Kumar, heading the convoy, assured them of help and informed them that relief camps would soon be opened.Reports said overtures for peace were being made by both sides. Some 300 people belonging to both the communities promised to work for peace in the presence of the deputy development commissioner here.New Delhi (PTI): The Janata Daldemanded the dismissal of the Bihar government and the stepping down, of the Prime Minister, Mr Rajiv Gandhi, for their “failure to combat communalism and communal violence”.	•The Dal’s spokesman, Mr Satpal. Malik, said it was not only an administrative failure but also a “calculated and well-planned violence assisted by the state government in view of the forthcoming general election”.The curfew relaxation from 11 a.m. came amid signs of an improvement in the situation, although troops staged a flag march for the third day in a row in riot-tom Bhagalpur.The Bihar home commissioner, Mr Jiya Lai Arya denied press reports and confirmed the death of 62 people, asserting that “each casualty, dead or wounded, has been verified”.With this, the official toll in communal violence and police firing in the four disturbed districts of Bihar stands at 88. Besides the Bhagalpur toll, Sitamarhi accounted for 18 dead, followed by seven in Munger and one in Darbhanga.	-Mr Arya said a mob today attacked some houses in a, locality of Bhagalpur town but timely police intervention saved the situation.Forty trouble-makers were apprehended, raising the total number of arrests to 290.	;He said the family of one community was saved by two men belonging to another community iri the town today. “This is a. positive sign,” Mr Arya said, Curfew wo'uld continue during night, he added ■* •Meanwhile, ‘Ram shila’ pro^ cessions were taken out in Samastipur, Giridih and Baherar ln Darbhanga district amid tight security. The home commissioner said everything went of peacefully. ; 'Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Corporators demand probe into riotA Staff ReporterThe Times of India (1861-current); Jan 23, 1980; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 5By A Staff Reporter BOMBAY, January 22.ALL sections in the Bombay municipal corporation meeting today demanded an inquiry into the riot on Mohammedali Road yesterday, which resulted in the death of one from police firing.Except the Congress (I) members, the rest of the house deeply appreciated the role of the Greater Bombay police in bringing an inflammatory situation under control. Particular mention was made of Mr. Jal Contractor, deputy commissioner of police, and Mr. Suresh ^Pendse, assistant commissioner.Mr. Y. M. Merchant (MML), gave an “eye-witness” account of the incidents yesterday and appreciated restraint shown by these two police officers.The meeting started on a stormy note at 3.45 p.m., when Mr. Shamim Tariq (MM'L) began banging the microphone on the table and, allegingthat Mr. Vamanrao Mahadik had “abused” his community, kept shouting: “Mahadik murdabad.”The.mayor, Mr. R. K. Chimbul-kar, calmed the angry Shiv Sena voices raised over MV. Tariq’s shouting and created an atmosphere for the orderly conduct of the debate.Mr. B. D. Zute, leader of the opposition, said property worth several lakhs was damaged, besides BEST buses. The incidents showed the absence of law and order under the present regime. He alleged that the police did not ■ arrive on the trouble spot for three hours. Mr. Zute asked for adjournment of the meeting for the day.Dr. A. U. Memon, leader of the house, requested Mr. Zute not to give a “political colour” to the riot. He too praised the work of the police.Mr. C. C. Bhujbal (SS) said when he visited the riot site at night, it was like a “smashan”. He believed the entire episode was planned. He felt the “local leaders” had failed in their duty and he blamed the riots on “goondas.” Mr. Bhujbal wanted the police to find out who was behind the riots and punish them. He too wanted the meeting adjourned.Mr. Mahadik harped on a “woman being molested according to my information” during the riot but said the commissioner of police denied any such happening and he was satisfied. The mayor also later repeated that the commissioner of police said no one was molested.Later, the deputy municipal commissioner, Mr. V. D. Vaidya, read out an official version of the incidents on Mohammedali Road.Others who spoke included Mr. B, S. Shelar (CPI), Mr. Yeshwant Kol (PDF), and Mr. Sharad Rao, whc opposed adjournment of the house So the house continued the sitting and heard Mr. Madhu Chavan (PDF; on the BEST budget.'He complimented Mr. B. H. Shete, chairman oi the standing commitee, for minutedly studying the budget and helping tc convert a deficit budget into a surplus one.	^Later, the house stood in silence for a minute to mourn Mr. C. Soares, a former deputy, municipal commissioner, who died today. The mayor made a reference to his death and paid tributes to his services. Mr. Soares had also acted for a short while as municipal commissioner. His funeral will take place tomorrow.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Cerfew clamped on AligarhThe Times of India (1861-current); Aug 17, 1980; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1Curfew clampedAUGARH, August 16 (PTIV.An indefinite curfew was clamped on Aligarh city, excepting the Civil Lines area, this evening after the police opened fire to disperse a violeut mob.The mob indulged in brickbatting. Some miscreants also reportedly fired shots at the police. Details of the incidents, including casualties if any, were not immediately known. iThe mob was stated to be protesting against the Morada-bad incidents.The commissioner of Agra is camping in the city to supervise the security arrangements.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner.the affected areas. After holding top-level consultations with the.PAC 1GP. Mr, R. N. Agarwal, and .the commissioner, Mr. Mar Svvarup Sharma, he decided to tighten security arrangements.The new SSP, Dr. D, V. Mehta, and the new collector, Mr. Madhu-kar Gupta, who were posted here last night assumed charge today.PTI adds: Amids reports of mounting tension in eight towns in Uttar Pradesh,, the death roll in the riot-tom Moradabad district has shot up to the following fresh incidents of firing and arson in Moradabad town.While the Uttar Pradesh government has alerted the army in Ram-pur, Kanpur and Meerut following acts of intimidation Sambhal, Bareilly, Allahabad, Amroha and Saharan-pur were gripped with tension. ■In various other towns, the minority community continued to violate prohibitory orders by attempting to take out processions.The Bareilly district magistrate tonight imposed ctirfew in the town from DJft p.m, to 7 am. tom or-row, following clashes between two groups of people during the day. Ranchi (PTI): Strong police pickets have been posted at strategic places in the. town following., an in-cidept of attempted raid by miscreants on a place of worship, at Do-randa area today, according to official sources.	, .Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿The Communal PsychosisAsghar Ali EngineerThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 16, 1973; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of Indiapg. 6Communal PsychosisOMMUNAL violence, it appears, has invaded us again. There was only a brief lull—a prelude to another storm. I he recent happenings at Hazaribagh. Delhi and Ahmedabad are once again pointing to this sore thumb. Is communal conflict inevitable and unavoidable in our sociopolitical milieu'? It would not be cynical ro answer in the affirmative, if the deadweight of our pre- and postindependence history is a in indication.It should he clearly borne in mind that communalism is a politico-economic phenomenon and not purely religious as is commonly misunderstood. Though it is an oversnnplication ot sorts, it is not wide of the mark to say that economic compulsions generate communal conflict, and that the religious, cultural or ideological idiom which is employed to project these conflicts is a mere expression of the more basic cleavages.The emergence of system changes in the economy and dominance of ballot-box politics puts the position of the elite groups, which till then had dominated and manipulated the fulcrum of power, in jeopardy. The elite groups then try to protect their position by identifying themselves with a recognisable community and itsxsocio-economic grievances, which inevitably become coterminous with communal division.Thus the communal conflict generated and sustained by the elite groups of both the major communities led to the vivisection of our country in 1947. (TTie same kind of conflict erupted in East Bengal, which is now Bangladesh, and led to the further partitioning of the Indian sub-continent.) It would, therefore, be quite evident that religion, though a powerful instrument to incite communal hatred, is not the prime-mover of this conflict.To retain their hold over their respective religious, regional or linguistic communities, fhe politicians, obsessed by 'the power complex and aided and abetted by the powerful vested interests, develop a parochial ideology anchored in the collective sub-conscious of these communities. This powerful passion play enables them to effectively masqueradetheir real designs, and instead, project themselves as the great champions of the respective communities. The Jana Sangh, Muslim League and Shiv Sena politicians essentially belong to the same category and share the spoils of communal politics.This is not to absolve other secular parties of the charge of communal politicking though then ideology is con-ciouslv based on the principles of secularism. As a short-cut to power, these secular parties also have a wayward indulgence with parochial sentiments, though, of course, quite subtly and coverth .The political situation is a variable function of economic crisis and, consequently, has a direct bearing on the vicissitude of communal politics. Our country has been passing through a deep economic crisis since 19b, when, as a result of this, the Congress suffered a severe set-back at the hustings. Naturally, various parochial parties and groups emerged on ihe scene to exploit the economic hardship of the common people and direct them through communal channels.The Jana Sangh had a field day in northern and central India where it captured a large number of seats m the state assemblies. The other secular parties became their partners in the coalition governments and thus lent it respectability and political viability. But these coalition governments themselves were not viable and hence tried to retain their hold over the electorate through other means. The communal parties like the Jana Sangh and the Majl is-e-Mushawarat could do1 it by fanning communal hatred. 'Thus, there was a major communal riot in Ranchi when a procession taken out in support of the Urdu language was attacked by the Jana Sangh-inspifed goondas during the united front regime. Many other riots also took place in which a number of innocent lives Were lost and property worth crores of rupees wras destroyed. The communal hatred was worked up to such a pitch that the Jana Sangh adopted the notorious resolution about the Indianisation of the Muslims and other minority communities in its Patna session in 1969. The right reaction found it most convenient to work up communal passions and thus mountpowerful harriers against the progressive, secular forces in India.The economic crisis deepened further and it was thought necessary to nationalise the major commercial banks to tide over it. The right reaction took alarm and bang came the Ahmedabad communal massacre, the worst since independence. Within a year followed another macabre show of communal frenzy at Bhiwandi and Jalgaon in 1970. Ibis denouement of communal reaction turned even the most optimist secularist into a pessimist. The secularists, it appeared, threw up their hands in despair. But this situation was not to last very long.The politics of the garibi hatao slogan worked, at least so far as the communal question was concerned, wonders and radicalised the whole atmosphere in the country. In the mid-term parliamentary elections held in 1971, all the right reactionary parties were routed and the Congress got a landslide victory at the polls. The communal reaction, it appeared, was now a spent force and would not be able to stand on its own any longer.But, this too proved, as is evident from the communal irruptions in various parts of our country' in the last couple of months, another ephemeral illusion. The economic crisis, as is apparent, is deeper than ever and is causing political turmoil unheard of in the postindependence period. This political vicissitude cannot but have a very adverse effect on the communal situation. With the aspirations of the masses frustrated, it requires but little ingenuity to give a mischievous, communal twist to the problem.The recent communal holocaust in Poona is an example. The bandh call given by the leftist parties degenerated into communal clashes. This should warn all those who care for the common man's struggle for bread. The vested interests will always hatch conspiracies to turn movements against rising prices, more food, better wages, etc., into sickening communal infights. This disturbing trend has emerged to the surface at other places also. In Ahmedabad, for example, the arson and loot were initially directed against foodgrain shops, but soon fhe agitation degenrated into communal rioting. There was, it appears, some invisible hand whichgave u inis lurn. n v.cck earner, inuuie also witnessed,-though on a much smal-p-aler scale, similar communal disturba ces. But such a gust can turn into hurricane in no time.	jThe attitude of the law and orderCCauthorities can make all the differen. in these situations. On a number lof occasions, many innocent lives wcjre lost as the police were not willing 'tois.enhebe ruthless with the communal elernen and, in some cases, gave them op encouragement. But whenever authorities have shown determinaliitm, disturbances have been quelled in ho time. 'fhe communal rioting which broke out in Delhi on June 12 would have turned into a major catastrophe but for the prompt police action.The shameless opportunism of politicians has been the major contributing cause in aggravating communal conliiyts. The cynical exploitation of the Vat!do Mataram issue in the Bombay rnunici elections is a case in point. The Mus League incited the passions of the M lim masses and got rich div idends j by capturing 12 seats; the Jana Sangh ami the Shiv Sena also took the cake on the other side of the fence. Bombay y-as in the grip of communal tension w’-~ this high drama, was going on. what was its climax? The Shiv S and the Muslim League teamed up get the Shiv Sena candidate elected the mayor’s post.For the power-crazy politicians, ntmus-nses are mere pawns on the political chess board. The fast-changing politicaltenndnatototas-cedscene in the country has foifc communal parties to evolve new strjata-gies for survival. The venomous antiMuslim propaganda of the Jana Sangh is no more to be heard. Instead, in the north, political horse-trading is going on between it and the Muslim com-munalists. There has been, of late, a subtle understanding between these communal groups. This does not mean 'that there has been a change of heart! on ihe part of the communalists. These! are mere tactics to stem the tide of theprogressive socialist, movement. Such tics can be changed any time. Intertac-ests.not alliances, are permanent in boli-tics. One can only say: Beware of cloak-and-dagger politics.thisAsghar Ali EngineerReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Several arson cases in Vashind: police firing in Wada townA Staff ReporterThe Times of India (1861-current); May 12, 1970; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Several arson cases in Vashind: police firing: in Wada townBy A Staff ReporterPLACE of worship and 20 houses were burnt down at Va: hind, near Shahpur, Thana_district, early on Monday.t he police reported incidents of looting and arson at Saivan, 'Deepavali and Dilcr in Virar lehsil where shops and houses were set ablaze.Mr.'V. P. Naik, Chief Minislcr. lold newsmen at his residence that :he police resorted to firing in two rases of arso'n on the outskirts of Bhiwandi, though the town remain-id peaceful.The Chief Minister said the arson ases arose mainly from personal en-nity and had nothing to do with the ommunal riots.Orders went out of the State police headquarters to take “firmer steps” against the arsonists. An officer explained that the orders meant the police might even shoot down people seen indulging in arson.Mr. Naik, after a lour of the riol-ffccled areas, said the situation in algaon had returned to normal, ln-estigation of ihe rioting cases were icing speeded up ,The Chief Minister announced that pedal magistrates would soon be ap-lointcd to expedite the disposal ' of ioting, arson and looting cases.Two’ companies of the Border Secu-ity Force have been despatched to ihivvandi to prevent any trouble in the urrounding villages.STRONG GI AKI)A strong guard has been posted at he pumping station at Pohguon.Seven rounds were fired by the tolice to disperse riotous mohs at Vada, a lalttka town near Mabad, vhere two cases of arson were retorted.Four rounds were fired when a shop vas looted at Saivan by a crowd. The tolice said two houses were looted ind set on fire at Deepavali. Two norc houses suffered a similar fate at Jiler.’ TENSE ATMOSPHEREA police officer staled that though he situation was generally quiet, a ense atmosphere prevailed in most >f the riot-torn areas.The Stale Reserve Police fired nine ounds to disperse a moh which at vasar-Wadavli village, neat Ihnna. aided a house injuring the initiate-, atally and setting on fire haystacks ind two other houses. Mehboob Sa-tanshah, the victim of an assault,'died n the Thana Civil Hospital.The police seized lout licensed ire arms. Wireless vans are patrol-ing the city round the clock. As natty as 1.400 policemen from Thana ind adjoining districts, Special Rc-erve Police and the Border Security :orcc are now detailed for handobast.Two hundred Home Guards from ’oona will help in clearing the toads tom Tuesday.Mr. E. S. Modal,, additional IGP.who is campaigning at Bhiwandi. expressed . confidence that peace would be restored shortly.Rioters set ablaze Nankar villageKAI.YAN, May 11: Rioters set ablaze Nankar village near here, destroying nearly three-fourths of it. A rice mill was also burnt down.Most of the families, fearing trouble, had left the village earlier.Twelve houses were also burned down in Nctivvali village, also near Kalyan.—P:T.I. .Political party leaders visit BhiwandiBy A Staff ReporterI caders of different political parlies visited, riot-hit Bhiw;andi town on Monday to assess the situation.Mr. Naik-Nimbalkar. president of the MPCC (Of, Mr. Jagannathrao Joshi, M.P.. ami Mr. Madhu Mehta, Swatantra Party leadei. were among those who visited the town.Mr. Joshi expressed concern over the disturbances and called upon the Government to arrange transport for the refugees.Leaders arrestedPtfONA. May jl:	Shiv Sena andHindu Jamil Mnndal leaders who are alleged to have made inflammatory speeches two days back at a public meeting held at the Mahatma Phule Market were attested today.They are Mr. Subhash Salvaged and Mr. Nandu Cihate (Shiv Sena), Mr. Bmdu Madhav Joshi and Mr. Balasa-heb l.imaye (Hindu Tartin Mandal) and Mr. P. G. Satav (Jana Singh). They are alleged to have pleaded for revenge over the Bhiwandi incidents..See Page 9	.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Tension in Meerut, curfew onThe Times of India (1861-current); Jul 6, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1MEERUT, July 5 (UNI).TENSION flared up in the city this morning following last night’s incident in which a mob set afire a shop in the KishanpUri area, burning the shopkeeper to death.Tne authorities, taking stock of the situation, have decided not to extend the curfew relaxation period.A senior police official said the shopkeeper was Sleeping in his shop when miscreants set it afire.His charred body was recovered after the fire was extinguished.Earlier yesterday, bomb explosions were reported from some areas but no arrests had been made in this connec* tion, a spokesman said.He said the two police stations of Kankarkheda and Pratapur on the outskirts had been brought under the jurisdiction of Meerut city and the 12 police stations in the city were split into four units. Some changes had also been effected in the police set-up, he added.Curfew was fully relaxed in some. areas Railway Road, Pratapur, medical college and Civil Lines.Meanwhile, senior block and district officials this morning reviewed the situation at a joint meeting and decided to intensify the drive against anti-social elements.oday that the situation in Meerut was 'ast returning to normal.In a statement here after a three-day ;tay in Meerut, he said that he had told he local administration to take .tringent measures to curb any further )utbreak of violence.He called on all communities to restore self-confidence and also assured them that those officials who tended to be lax or did not take timely action to prevent recurrence of such incidents ivould be severely dealt with.Lucknow: Tension gripj>ed Aligarh ind Moradabad towns today as a ection of the business community [owned shutters in certain localities irotesting against the detention of the lhahi Imam of the Jama Masjid inoradnagar when he was on his way todeerut yesterday.A cracker-blast near Moradabad cotwali this morning created panic, but to untoward incident was reported, an Jfficial spokesman said.BARODA PEACEFUL (UNI from Baroda): No untoward incidents were reported from any part of the city today, official sources said.The curfew relaxation periods passed off peacefully, the sources said.The authorities have banned the entry into the city of IS Muslim leaders including the Shahi Imam of the Jama Masjid, Mauiana Syed Abdulla Bukhari, and the Balm Masjid action committee chief, Syed Shahbuddin.The army deployment in the city was withdrawn; last night following improvement' in the situation.APPEAL FOR PEACE (PT1 from New Delhi): The Uttar Pradesh home minister Mr Gopinath Dikshit, saidReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Varanasi firing injures 6The Times of India (J86J-current); Aug 14, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿BJP rakes communal fire in GujaratThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Apr 7, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9The Times of India News ServiceAHMEDABAD, April 6.WITHIN 25 days of the Janata Dal-BJP coalition ministry, headed by the chief minister, Mr Chimanbhai Patel, taking, charge, Gujarat has witnessed as many as 136 communal clashes which have claimed 13 lives and left 75 iniured.During the Congress rule, the Janata Dal and the BJP had charged that the then-ruling party men were inciting the communal violence. The boot is now on the other foot.The coalition government took over on March 12. Unfortunately, soon after the new ministry assumed charge, the law and order situation started deteriorating. It all began with the Holi reveliy in Patan town of Mehsana district when large-scale violence broke out after a trivial dispute over the sale of cinema tickets in the blackmarket.The clashes that ensued left two killed and seven injured within two hours. The next day, the situation worsened with politicians trying to fish in troubled waters. The whole issue was given a political turn and the authorities were forced to imposeindefinite curfew which lasted for more than eight days. Even today night curfew is in force In Patan.Just when violence was tapering offin Patan, communal clashes broke out in the sensitive Broach town. The beginning of trouble has been traced to a heated discussion between two groups over apportioning of responsibility for the Patan violence,Broach had to be placed under indefinite curfew following sporadic incidents of group clashes, arson and looting. The BJP leaders lost no time in giving a bandh call in the town and even on the day of the bandh the town witnessed group clashes.The loss of lives and injuries to innocent people found its echo in Halej town of Kaira district. Mr Girishbhai Chandubhaki Patel, president of the town unit of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad, was kidnapped and done to death by a group of unidentified people.The murder of Mr Patel left a trail of communical clashes in Anand town and its surrounding areas. Widespread arson and looting took place. Once again the BJP leaders opted to give a bandh call, setting the stage for more violence.A group of VHP and BJP workers, while passing by a place of worship, reportedly abused youths waiting nearby. The altercation resulted inmajor clashes and Anand town, too, had to be placed under curfew.And even before the situation in Broach, Patan, Anand and Bhalej could be completely brought under control, Ahmedabad is already engulfed in communal fire. Several parts of the Gomtipur area, a labour belt of the city, have been placed under indefinite curfew and within two days, six people were stabbed to death.Observers are inclined to attribute the violence to the BJP’s desire to prove its political supremacy. The Janata Dal and the BJP may have buried the hatchet, but every one knows where the hatchet is buried.This impression is strengthened by the local BJP leaders’ aggressive role in the Kalupur and Dariapur areas during the past two days, they gave a bandh call and also staged a dharna, purportedly to protest against alleged police misbehaviour, but in the process vitiated the atmosphere. In all probability, they are perhaps trying to prove that the ministry headed by Mr Chimanbhai Patel has no control over the law and order situation because the chief minister himself has kept the home portfolio and the minister of state for home, Mr Narhari Amin, is also a Janata Dal man.On the other hand, the minoritycommunity in all the riot-affected areas of the state is left in utter confusion and frustration because ii docs not have any proper represent tation. With the BJP in power, the minorities feel insecure. More than20,000	Muslim women had gathered in front of the Kalupur police station last night demanding the release of Muslim youths who were detained bj the police. Never before in the past have Muslim women ghcraoed any police station in the city.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿SIX HURT IN DELHI CLASHThe Times of India (J86J-current); Apr 24, 1954; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 7SIX HURT IN DELHI CLASH,Police Pickets Posted' .-----■-----------“The Times of India News ServiceDELHI, April 23: Ten persons were injured, three of them seriously, in a clash between members of two different communities near the Idgah, Sadar Bazar, Delhi, today.It is learned that some refugees who were victims of a recent fire in Motia Khan were allotted land for the construction of their shops» near the Idgah. When they started putting up their shops on Friday, a huge crowd belonging to another community started hurling stones at them. In the melee that followed, six persons were injured.	. ■ ‘Police rushed to the spot and dispersed the crowd. Twenty-eight persons were rounded up, and the situation was soon brought under control. Police pickets have been posted in the affected area.Telephones In GuianaGEORGETOWN, April 22: The Government has decided that in future it will not repair telephone wires cut by saboteurs as the army, police and sugar plantations have their own communications.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Police fire on feuding groups in VaranasiThe Times of India (J86J-current); Dec 3, 1969; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Aligarh under curfewThe Times of India (J86J-current); Apr 1, 1983; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1ALIGARH, March 31 (UNI): Curfew was imposed on parts of the old town of Aligarh and the Central Resserve Police rushed there after two people were killed in violence, including cue in police firing.At least seven people were injured in clashes which began last' evening.In Lucknow, the home secreta;y, Mr, R. C. Tak.ru, told newsmen this evening that no further incidents had been reported after this morning's mob violence in the Sabzi Man>u area.The situation in Aligarh was fullv under control, he added.The district magistrate, Mr. P. L. Punia, warned the trouble-makers that they would be dealt with seriously-He said a number of arrests had been made and more were likely.Some policemen also sustained injuries.Tlie trouble started late last evening when the Benariji Rath mela processionists indulged in stone-throwing following police refusal to change the approved route of procession.The police resorted to a lathi-charge and fired seven rounds in the air to disperse the crowd.Farooq lashes out at CentreBy Our Staff CorrespondentSRINAGAR, March 31 : The chief minister. Dr. Farooq Abdullah, today accused the Centre of having starved the state of funds and said it was interested in installing a “puppet regime” in Jammu and Kashmir.His outburst against the Centre and the Planning Commission was in response to criticism voiced at a meeting of the citizens’ advisory council here today over the breakdown of civic amenities following the recent heavy snowfall and rain in the valley. The critics mentioned in particular the flooding of large areas and the inability of the authorities to carry out prompt dewatering and snow-clearing operations.Speaking in an angry tone, the chief minister blamed the Centre for not. providing adequate funds for development. Owing to lack of money, the state could not:;,procure pumps for dewatering. Though there was a demand for an alternative'Toad to the present highway into the valley, no funds had been provided for it. However, valuable money had been squandered on hosting the Asiad and the non-aligned summit in New Delhi.underReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Uneasy calm in DeIhi:toII 7The Times of India (J86J-current); Nov 17, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of Indiapg. 15NEW DELHI, Nov. 16 (PTI): An uneasy calm prevailed in the riot-torn parts of old Delhi as paramilitary forces staged flag marches throughout <he day.	'1 The death toll in the past two days of rioting in Sadar Bazar and Bara iHindu Rao areas rose to seven with one of the victims succumbing to his injuries this morning, the police said.^The situation in Tilak Nagar area of west Delhi was reported to be under control after some miscreants set on fire a place of worship last night. Police vigil was strengthened there.As many as 20 companies of CRPF, DAP, Maharashtra reserve police, and the BSF were-patrolling the lanes and bylanes of the congested old Delhi areas. The number of arrests has arisen to over 400.The Imam of Jama Masjid, Syed Abdullah Bukhari, today visited the; affected areas and appealed to people ,to maintain peace and harmony.^Curfew regulations were being enforced strictly with no relaxation, the police said and added that the government employees were allowed to go for work. Residents of the curfew bound areas complained of shortage of milk and other essential commodities.The residents of Katra Dhobian, from where the rioters began arson on Wednesday, said a miscreant who led the rampaging mobs, was still mov-. ing freely in the area.Punjab JD turns into JD(S)NEW DELHI, Nov. 16 (UNI): The Punjab unit of the Janata Dal today “converted itself into Janata Dal(S)., The general secretary of the unit,' Capt Vikram Singh, claimed in a press release here that a “unanimous” decision to this effect was taken at a meeting of senior leaders and prominent members of the JD here this morning.	.At least 11 office-bearers, including the vice-president and a “majority” of district presidents, expressed “support and affiliation” to the newly-formed party headed by Mr Devi Lai, the release said.Capt Singh said it was “most i unfortunate” that Mr V. P. Singh chose to “disintegrate the JD in such; a manner”.	.....	' He said the state unit had “totally ' reposed” its confidence in the leadership of Mr Chandra Shekhar as Prime Minister.It was the “general feeling that only Mr Chandra Shekhar could . solve the Punjab problem, he said.Assam blast toll rises to six| GUWAHATI, Nov. 16 (PTI): The [ death toll in the Ganeshguri Market' t bomb blast mounted to six today . with two more persons succumbing , to their injuries in Guwahati Medical College Hospital here.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Chautala to blame, says CongressThe Times of India (J86J-current); Mar 8, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 13Chautala to blame,NEW DELHI, March 7: The Congress today held the Janata Dal (S) general secretary, Mr O. P. Chautala, “personally responsible for ordering surveillance on the party president, Mr Rajiv Gandhi at his residence, reports PTI.Without elaborating on how the party came to this conclusion, the parly spokesman, Mr M, J. Akbar, told newsmen the Congress had to lake note of this incident as it was not a low level decision.Mr Gandhi, had earlier told reporters at Rashtrapati Bhavan that preliminary reports of investigations into the incident had revealed that Mr Chautala had a hand in the incident.Mr Akbar dismissed remarks by the Prime Minister, Mr Chandra Shekhar, that the Congress attitude on surveillance was “childish saying that all parties had said in unequivocal terms in the Lok Sabha that the issue involved political ethics and morals.3 killed in BiharJAMSHEDPUR, March 7: An indefinite curfew has been clamped in the Golmuri police station area of the city after a predawn gun battle between two communities left three persons dead and several others injured, reports PTI.The police said both the groups used firearms and other lethal weapons in the pitched battle to gain control over a disputed land near the masjid. Three shops, a car and two motor-cycles were set afire during the clash.group clashReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿DUTCH FIRM TO ADVISE GOVTS.The Times of India (1861-current); May 13, 1956; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 2DUTCH FIRM TO ADVISE GOVTS.’ Land ReclamationThe Netherland firm of consulting engineers, Nedeco, is advising the Governments of India and West Bengal on land reclamation problems, it is learnt in Bombay.The firm has been appointed consultants to the Bombay Municipal Corporation also to prepare a project report on the reclamation of land in the marshy areas of Greater Bombay.An engineer of the firm, Mr. Westbroek, is now in India. *The Bombay Municipal Corporation’s scheme for the reclamation oflow-lying land is estimated to cost Rs. 30,000,000.The West Bengal Government is said to have projects in hand for the reclamation of land in the Sunder bans area between Calcutta and Diamond Harbour.The firm proposes to reclaim land on the Dutch pattern— building dykes across the side | from where water seeps into the land, enclosing such water in large reservoirs and pumping it, back into the sea until the land is dry and ready for building construction.—NAPEN.HARIJAN BANNED FROM WEDDING Three Men ArrestedGWALIOR, May 12: The Gwalior city police have arrested three Caste Hindus, on a charge of practising untouchabilityThey were alleged to have disallowed a Chamar youth from participating in a' wedding dinner.^The police took the three' men Into custody under the Untouchability Act on a report lodged by Mi*. Harish Chandra, vicepresident of the Gwalior District Depressed Classes League.The arrested men were later releasd on a bail of Rs. 200 each. —P.T.I.________________Firing In “Masjid”JODHPUR, May 12: Sixteen < persons- were seriously injured 1 When a party fired on a gather- : ing of nearly . 100 Muslims in . a ; masjid for namaj, near Phlodi. about 100 miles from here, on < Wednesday, according to report : received here.	iThe -assailants escaped before 1 the police reached the spot. ; The Injured have been brought here and admitted to hospital. , —U.P.I.	;Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿MAHARAJAH WILL NOT BE SACKEDThe Times of India (J86J-current); Oct 16, 1967; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1MAHARAJAH WILL NOT BE SACKEDBy A Staff ReporterWill Air-India sack its maharajah?No, assured Mr. J. R, D. Tata,: ch'awjtaan pi Akrlpdia; :«o: -Sunday. ■•5	■-In an interview to AIR on the 35th anniversary of Air-ludia, Mr. Tata said: “Some people thought onr little maharajah, was out of tune with the new age and should be sacked. My colleagues and I insisted he should stay. After ail, the little fellow had served us well and had no privy purse to fall hack on!”Details of interview on Page STwo killed in police firing , on violent mob‘“The Times of Lidia” News ServicePATNA, October 15.HPHE people were killed when the *8 police fired on a violent mob at Sursand, in Sitamarhi sub-division of Muzaffarpur district, today. Three people were earlier killed in stabbing cases.The police resorted to firing when the situation became explosive after the mob had set fire to some huts.The sub-divisional officer of Sita-marlii and the oficer in-charge of the Sursand police station were among those injured in various incidents.Curfew has been enforced on Sursand and the surrounding areas of the sub-division.The trouble was a sequel to a clash between two groups of people following at attack on a Durga immersion procession.Forty people have been arrested so far. Twelve of them were taken into custody yesterday. Meetings and processions were promptly banned, hut tension continued and1 the situation took a serious turn when some huts were set on fire.Four battalions of the military police have been mshed to Sursand from Muzaffarour.100,000 people hi t by Jaisalmer famineJAIPUR, October 15: Over 100,000 people and 50,000 head of cattle were in tile grip of famine in the desert area of Jaisalmer district hi Rajasthan following failure of rains, Mr. Bal Singh Soda, a Swatantra MLA from Jaisalmer said today-.He said over 400 villages in the area were affected by famine.—U.N.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew order in Karad townshipThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jul 3, 1982; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1.	■. : PUNE, July 2 (P’11).A 26-HOUR curfew was clamped ill in Karad townshipv in ’ • Satara district early today fdjjowftig; clashes between two groups of people last night, the deputy superintendent pf police, Satara, Mr. D. L. Daphale, said.	' ■	• •■■■'■ ■/ '	- ' ,Mr. Daphale said that the trouble prose: following a quarrel between two /persons near a pan, shop in the Guru-war Peth area of the tehsil township. The quarrel led to a riot involving ■two rival groups and -it soon spread to the nearby areas. As tension, continued during the night, curfew was clamped on the township.Strong police contingents were immediately r tushed •• ter the tdWriship/ The collector of Satara,, Mr. B. R. Sawant, was stated to be camping in Karad.	/The police, said 25 peopl e were arrested Ull late this evening, in con-nectioh wim the/ incident’. At least one person was • injured in1 the rioting, in /which gycle chains were used.Mr. Daphale said that the curfew, enforced at 4 a.m. today, would be in force till 6 a.m. tomorrow. The situation was officially stated fa be “completely under control and peaceful” this evening.French cosmonaut, crewmates returnMOSCOW, July 2 (AP)r The first French cosmonaut; returned from eight days in ;space today, soft landing in Kazakhstan with two Soviet crewmates. .Jean-Loup Chretien, 43, landed aboard the - Soyuz-T-6 along willi Soviet space veterans Vladimir Dhzani-bekov, 40, and Alexander Ivanchcn-kov, 41. •• Soviet television carried live coverage from the mission control center in Moscow at 6.21 p.m. Moscow time, .about two minutes behind ■ schedule, but did not immediately- show the touchdown.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Mobs in Tinsukia defy curfew, clash with policeThe Times of India (J86J-current); Apr 1, 1968; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Mobs in Tinsukia defy curfew, clash with policeSHILLONG, March XLVIOLENT crowds, hurling * stones, bottles and missiles, fought a pitched battle-with the police for ovpr five hours till midday today jn the curfew-bound industrial town of Tinsukia, in upper Assam, where an indefinite curfew was clamped down, yesterday afternoon, following a flare-up of communal disturbances.After a quiet but tense night, the situation deteriorated early this morning, when groups collected in various localities, armed with sticks, stones and other missiles, in defiance of the curfew.Police pickets moved in to break up the mobs and in the clashes several- people, including 40 policemen, were injured.	_The police had to lathi-charge once today to disperse a violent crowd that attacked / police pickets. Some people were injured.	'MANY ARRESTEDThe curfew, which was clamped down at 4 p.m. yesterday, following mpb violence over the slaughter of a cow, will remain in force indefinitely. According to the police, over 150 people have been arrested, so far.The same source said that in all 75 people, including 55 police personnel, were injured in the disturbances.,An^ry crowds yesterday burnt down three'houses, including the one.where the cow was slaughtered.: The mobs also made attempts to bum down some other houses, but the police intervened in time.—P.T.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew imposed on M.P. townThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); May 30, 1969; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Curfew imposed on M.P. town“The Times of India” News Service# BHOPAL, May 29: Curfew was reimposed as a precautionary measure tonight on Barnagar where one person was stabbed to death in a communal cla?»h last night.According to official information reaching here, there were no untoward incidents following the imposition of curfew at midnight last night.Curfew was reimposed after a two-hour relaxation in the morning. The situation is now reported to be under control.The police are, however, taking no chances in view of the tension in the area because of the forthcoming byelection to the State Assembly on Sunday in Ujjain,A keen contest is expected between the Congress candidate who faces Mr. Mahadev Joshi backed by the Jana Sangh and. the Rajmata of Gwalior. It is a prestige contest for the SVD which had won the seat in the last general election. The MLA was subsequently unseated through an election petition.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Violence spreads in MeerutThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jul 4, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1LtfCKNO^ July 3.THE situation iri •Meerut has JL assumed alarming proportions Respite the deployment of tie triny and the imposition Of curfew >h three-fourths.of the city^ withho tnll	fhe toll in?;lesl>:vio|ehce-since!»»-• J'._t*“-	••wmstvajr.	a*A.	....i Today, a cyclist,.aged 40, who was accompanied ^aloy^w^’stab^ tc death by a group of a dozen people ai Multan Nagar in the Transport Nagai area. The bOy was ^so inflicted witli knife jnjuries, dragged away and dump ed in a well. ■ ■;	^ -p\.An elderly womanartd h$$l-y^« old son, who received gun #6ts atthi densely populated LaTdas-feiiSerai/iti the Delhi Gate area yesterday, died after admission to the Medical College Hospital. -	^	> '/; Arson incidents were reported from Delhi road, Kaisarganj, Malidna railway-crossing and Lisadi gate. A.dry-cleaner’s shop was set on fire near theBhagpat bus-stand. . „ .	.Acts of arson and firing occurredafter the curfew relaxation hours yesterday. The authorities have since withdrawn the relaxation during the day, which was'allowed following anshops and other establishments open. Bifcservice&were also resumed ip the area!/ ' X.;- •		.Twelve companies of the State Reserve. Police and, twb of the Border Home Guards are keeping vigil in all the sensitive areas of tftP city.GOFEPOSAtennexjtehi^d•NEW DELHI, July.3 (UNI): The provision for detention of persons under COFEPOSA for two years in certain, ^highly vulnerable-areas' has been extended for thrde more years up to the ond of July, 1990.	'/i Slhnce' th^ maximum damage to the national economy is caused by smug* glefs operating in the highly vulnerable area?, the, longerperiod of detention, under section 9,:tif the smugglers their associates and their links had proved a good deterrent. *	•It is in this context that the provision, which was to expire at the ;nd of July this year, has been extended up toJuly 31,1990, through a presiden-lial. ordinance, according to a press release issued today.The ‘highly vulnerable areas’ are lefined as the ‘Indian customs waters,’'Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿8 hurt in group clash in AP villageThe Times of India (J86J-current); Oct 7, 1984; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 98 hurt in group clash in A P villageHyderabad, woer 6 (pti):Eight persons were injured, two seriously, in a clash between two groups following a rumour that houses of one group had been stoned by another at Attapur village in Ranga Reddy district last night.The police said one group came in a lorry to the village from Hyderabad to participate in a religious function. Immediately: after it left rumours were spread that...it.. had pelted stones at the houses of another group. '	' v. ' ■''	■■ .	.Fifty members of the latter group indulged in arson and looting in the village. Fifteen houses, a shop and an auto-rickshaw were burnt, the police said.	1	J .,' About 100 persons have been taken into custody, the police said.. Meanwhile, ten persons from Cud-dapah district, who were in possession of a country-made revolver and several other lethal weapons were arrested by the city police early today.PM to visit AP on October 14BOMBAY, October 6 (PTI): The Prime Minister, Mrs Indira Gan lhi, will visit Andhra Pradesh on October 14 to study the drought situation, the chief minister, Mr N. T. Rama Rap, said in a broadcast over All-India Radio and Doordarshan today.The chief minister said_ that during his visit to Delhi, the Prime Minister heard him patiently on the droughi situation and had agreed to visit the state.Mrs Gandhi was earlier expected to visit the state on October 9.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿7 Killed In Clashes In Raigarh: Curfew Imposed: Meetings BannedThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Mar 20, 1964; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Curfew Imposed: MeetingsBanned“The Times of India” News ServiceBHOPAL, March 19Government sources said curfew had been imposed. Meetings, processions and demonstrations had been banned. The situation was now well under control.	,.‘Eighteen persons have been arrested. Strong police reinforcements have been sent lo Raigarh from the neighbouring districts. Home guards have been called out.	,CROWD DISPERSEDP.T.l. adds: The trouble started with a few cases of stabbing in the jute mill area, and later spread to other localities of the town, reports said. At 5 a.m., a small crowd attacked the house of a member of the minority community. The police dispersed the crowd, but there were incidents of arson later in the day.A press note by the Madhya Pradesh Government here tonight said that,	as a	result	of	“the suddenoutbreak of communal violence, seven persons of the minority community lost their lives.’’Raigarh is the headquarters town of Raigarh District in Bilaspur. Division.	,	:A telephonic message received at the Government headquarters said steps	were	being taken	to assure fullprotection	to the	life	and propertyof members of the minority community. ,Curfew has been imposed from 4 p.ni. (o 7 a.m. tomorrow and an order under Sec. 144, Cr. P.C., prohibiting the Assembly of five or more persons and carrying of weapons, has been promulgated in Raigarh town.Tile Deputy Inspector-General of Police, Eastern Range, and the Commissioner of Bilaspur Division have reached Raigarh.Many people of the minority community have been evacuated from the affected localities and accommodated in the police station premises.The Government . appealed to the people to remain calm ,and refrain from any action that might aggravate the situation.—P.T.l.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Rioters Clash With Police In Bagalkot: One Killed: DUSK -TO -DAWN CURFEW IMPOSEDThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 28, 1958; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 1DUSK-TO-DAWN CURFEW IMPOSED“The Times of India” News Service_ r Jt_	BIJAPUR, October 27.^ DUSK-TO-DAWN curfew is reported to have been imposed in Bagalkot today where the police had opened fire repeatedly yesterday to quell a riot, killing one person and injuring several others.	I .	,r'(,	|*	•	.	violence followed the stone-throw-ritteen policemen, including ing. Shops were looted, vehicles three officers, were hit by burn* and the Masjid damaged.stones thrown by violent crowds . ?he P°,ice tried their best toT.	...... .	*	nnng the situation under controlit is stated that noting broke out by other means, but were ultimately when stones were thrown at a Pro- forced to open fire to disperse cession of Rashtriya Swayam Sevak angry mobs at several centres in Sang volunteers near the Pankha the town.Masjid. Some volunteers were said According to unconfirmed re-to have been injured.	ports, a few riders were killed inImmediately after the incident, a the police firing and several others ban on the assembly of more than injured by bullets, four persons, processions and meet- Police reinforcements are said to ings was imposed by the District have been rushed from Hubli and Magistrate of Bijapur, Mr. G. H. police pickets are posted at key Adirajayya.	centres. The situation is reportedAccording to an eye-witness, mob to be still tense. The District‘	' '	------- Superintendent of Police and theDistrict Magistrate are camping there.However, no untoward incident has been reported since this morning.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Faizabad toll 2, Jamshedpur back to normalThe Times of India (J86J-current); Oct 24, 1988; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1Faizabad toll 2, Jamshedpur back to normalLUCKNOW. October 23 (UNI & PTI).f	person uieu oi duiici m-wjuries in Haiderganj this morning, raising the toll to two, in the curfew-round Faizabad district.	'Anotner person was injured py sharp ibjects in a scuffle in Faizabad. So far 139 people have been arrested since the listurbances erupted in the district on 'riday night.The situation in Aligarh, Khatauli ind Muzaffamagar, where curfew was elaxed, was peaceful, according to eports reaching the state headquarters lere.In the capital the Indian Muslim fouth conference today charged the Jabri Masjid action committee with nciting Friday’s communal violence at 7aizabad.Meanwhile, with normalcy fast re-uming to J&mshedpur, the curfew, mposed on October 20, after 16 people vere killed into stampede withdrawn oday from Bishtupur area while it was elaxed for 12 hours and 17 hours in dango and Sakchi areas respectively, tccording to police sources.	'The Jharkhand Mukti Morcha JMM) has given a call for a “Sing-ibhum bandh” on Octobe 28 in protest igainst the police lathi-charge during hestmpede. ;In Ranchi the Bhartiya Janata Party eader, Mr Samresh Singh, MLA, today ategorically accused the Jamshedpur idministretion for triggering the tampede.Mr Singh alleged that the deputy mlice superintendent (traffic), amshedpur, was responsible for the ragedy as he allowed a Maruti car to nove on the bridge in spite of the passive turnout <The situation in curfew-bound Dhar >wp, 60 km from Indore, remained eacefid today and there was no un-jward incident reported during theire&hour curfew relaxation period.The curfew was clamped on the tight of October 20-21 folowing police iring, in which One person was killed nd four others seriously injured, after i clash between Duiga puja pro-essionists and the police.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿’Ripper’ to be ripped off his assetsThe Times of India (1861-current); Dec 3, 1983; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9E'ETER Sutcliffe, the “Yorkshire!_ “ripper1’ convicted of murdering 13 women* has been declared bankrupt, and his assets will be scjld to pay $ 37,500 compensation to some of his Victims.Sutcliffe, 37, a truck driver jailed for life in May 1981, for the 13 murders and attacks on seven other women, was declared bankrupt on Wednesday, by the Bradford county court in his native Vorksbire.FftSSlLS DISCOVERED: Scientists working in Africa have found the 17«pu‘llion-year-dld fossil remains of an apelike creature, that may be the long sought common ancestor of humans and all the great apes.Working in an isolated region of northern TCenya called Buluk, scien-tisis found an upper jaw, part of a lower jaw, teeth and a few bones from below the Head of the creature, said the National Geographic Society, which spopsdrfed the expedition, ivlf th<5 specimen proves as old as prel minary potassium-argon dating indicates, the researchers said, then the creature could represent the ancestral bridge between man and the great apes in Africa, and orangutans and their predecessors in Asia.RAIL* LINE TO TIBET: China has completed the first phase of arailroad to Tibet, an 834 km section that comes to within 450 km of the remote region, the official Xinhua news agency reported.Xinhua said bn Thursday the section from Xining to Golmud in Qin-ghai province, begun in 1974 opened for trial operation in March and already has carried 300,000 tons of goods destined for Tibet, The railroad replaced more costly truck routes, it said. The line is one of the highest in the world.paramilitary police, said Gen. Giuseppe Santovito wr.» picked up on Thursday night at his Rome home and taken to the police headquarters.NATIONALEIFFEL TOWER FARTS: Twenty3	KILLED IN CLASH (UNI): Three people were killed, three others seriously injured and 60 houses set on fire, when two warring group* clashed . at Ramachandrapuram in Tirunelveli district on Thursday, according to police sources.what is described as “an important landmark in import substitution”, the Bhilai steel plant has manufactured 270 tonnes of ‘teeming ladle’ (vessel) to transport molten metal.The chairman of the Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL), Mr. Samarapungavan, handed over the ladle to\ the steel melting shop at a function.IN BRIEFsections of the original spiral iron staircase between the second and third level of Eiftel Tower were sold at auction on Thursday for a total of 1,847,000 francs.The section* ranged in height from 2.6 to 7.4 metres in height and were dismantled during the recent renovation of the second level.SECRET SERVICE CHIEF: The police arrested the former head of Italy’s military secret service, on charges of criminal association involving the mafia, officials said on Friday.A spokesman for the Carabinieri,The clash was a sequel to a longstanding dispute over the teasing of temple lands. Country made bombs, sickles and knives were freely used in the'clash.The injured were admitted to the Tuticorin government hospital.MEMORIAL STAMP: The Prime Minister, Mrs. Indira Gandhi, will release a special stamp in memory of the renowned painter, Mr. Nanda-lal Bose, at a function at the National Gallery of Modem Art in Delhi on December 5.Issued by the posts and telegraphs department, the multicolour stamp carries a painting, “pratiksha”, of Mr. Nandalal Bose.HONOUR TO ARTIST: The Indian artist, Shabir Hasan Quazi, has received honourable mention award at the second Asian art exhibition which opened in Dhaka on Thursday.Two other artists from Turkey and China also got the award. About 550 works from 15 Asian countries are on display at the month-long exhibition.BHILAI PLANT FEAT: AchievingILNA OBJECTION: The president of the Indian language newspapers association Mr, Pratap Shah, on Friday' objected to the Centre’s proposal for a “pool price” for imported and indegenous newsprint.In identical telegrams to the three concerned ministries of commerce, industry and information and broadcasting, Mr. Shah said the proposal was not in the interest of small and medium newspapers in general and the newspaper industry as a whole.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿DISTURBANCES IN CHANDAUSI: FIVE DEAD: 19 INJUREDThe Times of India (J86J-current); Oct 6, 1961; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1DISTURBANCES IN CHANDAUSI Five Dead: 19 IniuredMORADABAD, October 5:	Fivepersons were killed and 19 others in' jured in communal disturbances ye^ terday at Chandausi, a township If miles from Moradabad. Several houses and shops were reported to have beer looted and burnt.	1 ■A 24-hour curfew was imposed and prohibitory order under Section 144 Cr.P.C. promulgated.Latest reports said the situation was under control.A press note issued by Mr. S. V,S.	Juneja, District Magistrate, on his return from Chandausi this morning, said, “about 1,000 local students, incited by the students returning from Aligarh, took out a procession as a protest against the Aligarh incident about 10 yesterday morning.While passing through the streets, the procession was showered with brick-bats. This enraged the local populace and, about noon, anti-social elements took over and started indiscriminate looting and burning. A large police force, accompanied by the Sub-Divisional Magistrate and the Deputy Superintendent of Police, was despatched and the District Magistrate and the Superintendent of Police rushed afterwards with more reinforcements and order was res-;ored. A 24-hour curfew was imposed, and it will be renewed if necessary.The District Magistrate said that the situation at Chandausi was under control and more Provincial Armed Constabulary and police were being rushed to the place. Patrolling of the township had been ordered.—P.T.I.Meerut: Brick-bats were thrown it a silent procession of students of he local schools and colleges taken jut here today in protest against the listurbances in Aligarh on Tuesday, some students received minor in-uries. One of them was however, idmitted to hospital.—P.T.I > .Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Steps for peaceful Id in AligarhOur CorrespondentThe Times of India (1861-current); Nov 12, 1978; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1By Our CorrespondentALIGARH, November 11.THE district magistrate Mr.V.- K. Dewan, today appealed to the;people to,help the administration, evolve necessary measures to diffuse tension and ensure successful celebration of ID-ul-Zuha in the town tomorrow.He was addressing a meeting of leading citizens and representatives of various political parties here. Mr. Dewan, who convened the meeting, stressed the need for the active cooperation of members of all communities to restore peace and to find a lasting solution to the communai problem.Speakers at the meeting demanded stern action against those responsible for the incidents in the town in which 15 people, had been killed and 37 injured. .	.The senior superintendent of police, Mr. Jagmohan Saxena, who took over last night, said that the immediate task of the administration was to ensure peaceful celebration of Id.Later the district magistrate told newsmen that one person was injured in a stabbing incident today.He said the curfew was relaxed in two stages of three hours—duration each—9 a.m. to 12 noon and 1 p.m. to 4 p.m.	.The district magistrate said precautionary measures were being taken to ensure peaceful celebration of Id. Three more companies of the BSF arrived ■ today, in addition, to nine companies already posted here. Besides the BSF 21 companies of the PAC and five of the CRP have been posted in' jtiie town.The chief minister, , Mr. Raim Naresh Yadav, who was scheduled to arrive here last night could not come because of a sudden change in his programme.	-The district magistrate said 220 people had been arrested! so far foi violation of curfew and on other charges.It is learnt that seven people were arrested today, some of them belonging to the RSS. The former city Janata party president, Mr. K. K. Navman, and his son', who were named in the FIR relating to six cases of rioting, are understood to be evading arrest., According to informed sources, attachment proceed-ings are being initiated against'them. ... Meanwhile, Dr. Shankar Dayal - Sharoia, leader of an eight-member Congress (I) delegation, today visited Aligarh and met students and staf, members of Aligarh Muslim University. He told newsmen that the di trict magistrate did not allow the delegation to visit the riot affected areas.Dr. . Sharma demanded immediate action against (hose named in the first information report filed following violent incidents in the town on October 5 and November 6.P.T.I. adds from New Delhi:A demand that the district administration of Aligarh should be handed over to the army has been made. a deputation of Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) which has met central leaders here.The deputation in a memorandum submitted to the leaders said that the situation in the city was completely out of control and there is crisis of confidence.The memorandum signed ■ by M,r. N3sim Qureshi, convenor AMU relief and . rehabilitation committee, and Saeed-ur-Rehman Siddiqui, secretary staff. association, AMU, also, demanded that four junior officers named by the district magistrate for “derilic-tion of duty’’ should be suitably punoshed and culprits named in various FIRs arrested.“TRANSFER COMMISSIONER”It demanded , the transfer of the commissioner, who' it said gambled with the lifting of curfew against the advice of district administration and the cancellation of the transfer ot the district magistrate, Mr. S. D. Bagla, who “has been very human and who during the riot did his best to restore normalcy.”The deputation, which, was led by-Mr. Siddiqui during its two-day visit here on November 9 and 10, met the Janata party president, Mr. Chandra Shekhar, the minister of state for home, affairs, Mr. S. D. Path, the petroleum minister, Mr. II. N. Bahu-guna, and the works and housing minister, Mr. Sikander Bakht.The deputation also met the U.P. chief minister, Mr. Ram Naresh Yadav, who was here.Mr. Shahi Imam of Jama Masjid, Syed Abdullah Bukhari, in a letter to the president, urged him ‘“ to compel the Janata government to take strong and effective action” to put an end to the trouble in Aligarh.He alleged that RSS elements “aided and abetted by the PAC personnel” were behind the incidents. -Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿THREE KILLED AND SIX INJURED: INCIDENTS NEAR CALCUTTAThe Times of India (1861-current); Mar 20, 1950; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 7THREE KILLED AND SIX INJURED Incidents Near CalcuttaCALCUTTA, March 19: in ah incident in Khardah (24 Parganas) last night, about 14 miles from Calcutta, three persons were killed ahd six injured. A number of huts in a local bustee were burnt.The same night in a similar incident in Dum Dum, about six miles from here, two persons were killed and two injured. A number of shops and houses were looted. The police soon arrived on the spot and , brought the situation under control. ;An order under section 144 Or. P.G. has been promulgated in Dum j Dum municipal area from today for seven days.—P.T.I.Lucknow: Though no incidents] have been reported from Shahjehan-! pur for the last three days, a few cases of arson have, been reported j from Kheri, a town in the adjacent' district of Lakhimpur. Collective fines have been imposed on some villages in Shahjehanpur district by the local authorities.—U.P.I. SHILLONG ARRESTShillong: Mr. B. R. Medhi, pittance Minister, Assam diS&losed in the Assam Assembly yesterday that information had been received by him that Mauiana Abul Kashen, M.L.A., had been arrested in connection with an alleged offence and released on bail later. He added that according to information from the Deputy Commissioner Mauaiana Kashen had left for Pakistan.—.Saihthla: West Rengai: Two Muslims were arrested by the Ideal police following: recovery of explosive sub-tances from their houses. The police also Searched the house of a Muslim business man at SuTi and recovered explosive substances from, his house. The business man and his son were arrested,	■Abdul Amjidf said* to be a Pakistan spy was arrested for alleged subversive activities.	'Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Minority victims at JalgaonA Staff ReporterThe Times of India (1861-current); Jun 27, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 3Minority victims at JalgaonBy A Staff ReporterBOMBAY. June 26: The government admitted in the legislative assembly today that most of the victims of the recent riot in Kasoda in Jalgaon district belonged to the minority community.A Congress member from the constituency. Mrs Parutai Wagh. joined theCPI member, Mr Madhavrao Gaikwad. in holding the communal organisations, the Vishwa Hindu Par-ishad and Patit Pavan Sanghtana. responsible for the attacks.Mrs Wagh said the atrocities would shame terrorist acts in Punjab and that the guilty had still not been arrested. The minister of state for home. Mr J.T.	Mahajan. who hails from Jalgaon district, said some of the suspects had sought anticipatory bail. In response to Mrs Wagh's demand for a ban on the communal organisations, he said this was not possible.Mr Gaikwad said the riot was not a result of a clash between two com-munilies as claimed by the government. It was a onc-sidcd attack by the Vishwa Hindu Parishad on selectedtargets.The deputy speaker. Dr Padamsing Patil. called upon members not to “pour oil on fire.”Mr Ram Naik of the BJP objected to describing the VHP as a communal organisation as it represented the ma-joritv Hindu community. The Hindus, he said, would no longer meekly suffer assaults from others.The minister admitted that all the 72 houses and a mojority of 50 shops burni in the riots belonged to the minority community.Mrs Wagh said the town had been peaceful till the Hindu communal organisations came on the scene.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿MONTH'S TRAVEL BENEATH ICEThe Times of India (J86J-current); Feb 26, 1960; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 6MONTH’S TRAVEL BENEATH ICE U. S. Atomic Submarine“A.P,” and “The Times of India”Navg fiprvippWASHINGTON, February 25: TheU.	S. atomic submarine Sargo, com* pleted yesterday almost a month of travel beneath the polar ice cap, including a visit to the North Pole.The Sargo surfaced near St. Lawrence Island, off the western coast of Alaska, at the southern edge of the winter pack ice. This is near the point, at which she submerged on January 25 for the under-ice cruise.During the trip back from the Pole, the Sargo poked up through the ice five times. On one such surfacing, crewmen saw tracks of a polar bear and organised a hunting party. They did not find the bear.Riots In Dhulia“The Times of India” News Service DHULIA, February 25:	Severalpersons sustained ' injuries and a number of shops were looted as passions flared after an idol of Ma-Tuti was found desecrated here today.The police acted promptly to restore order. A prohibitory order under Section 144, Cr. P. C., was clamped on the town.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿2 die in fresh Hyderabad riotsThe Times of India (1861-current); Mar 26, 1985; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 72 die in fresh Hyderabad riotsHYDERABAD, ; March 25 (PTI): Two persons, including a woman, were killed and ten injured in fresh outbreak of violence last night in the curfew-bound Tappa Chabutra police station limits.According to the police, two warring groups attacked houses in the Joshiwi area yesterday, resulting in the death of one person and injuries to seven, one of whom dying at Osmania Hospital early today.Three cases of stabbing were also reported from the area this morning. All injured have been admitted to hospital.Indefinite curfew continued in the riot-hit Asifnagar, Mangalhat a nd Tappa Chabutra areas, the police said.Session to end on April 4By A Staff ReporterBOMBAY, March 25: The session of the Maharashtra legislature will end on April 4 as scheduled.The report of the business advisory committee on the sittings was presented to the assembly today by the legislative affairs minister, Mr. N. M. Tidke.	'During the remaining days of the session, the agenda will include discussions on the motion of’ thanks to the governor for his address, on the supplementary demands and the budget.Some bills will also come up.I111-11'	.... i	ii	mmummmmmReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Tension in Meerut, curfew onThe Times of India (1861-current); Jul 6, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1MEERUT, July 5 (UNI).TENSION flared up in the city this morning following last night’s incident in which a mob set afire a shop in the KishanpUri area, burning the shopkeeper to death.Tne authorities, taking stock of the situation, have decided not to extend the curfew relaxation period.A senior police official said the shopkeeper was Sleeping in his shop when miscreants set it afire.His charred body was recovered after the fire was extinguished.Earlier yesterday, bomb explosions were reported from some areas but no arrests had been made in this connec* tion, a spokesman said.He said the two police stations of Kankarkheda and Pratapur on the outskirts had been brought under the jurisdiction of Meerut city and the 12 police stations in the city were split into four units. Some changes had also been effected in the police set-up, he added.Curfew was fully relaxed in some. areas Railway Road, Pratapur, medical college and Civil Lines.Meanwhile, senior block and district officials this morning reviewed the situation at a joint meeting and decided to intensify the drive against anti-social elements.oday that the situation in Meerut was 'ast returning to normal.In a statement here after a three-day ;tay in Meerut, he said that he had told he local administration to take .tringent measures to curb any further )utbreak of violence.He called on all communities to restore self-confidence and also assured them that those officials who tended to be lax or did not take timely action to prevent recurrence of such incidents ivould be severely dealt with.Lucknow: Tension gripj>ed Aligarh ind Moradabad towns today as a ection of the business community [owned shutters in certain localities irotesting against the detention of the lhahi Imam of the Jama Masjid inoradnagar when he was on his way todeerut yesterday.A cracker-blast near Moradabad cotwali this morning created panic, but to untoward incident was reported, an Jfficial spokesman said.BARODA PEACEFUL (UNI from Baroda): No untoward incidents were reported from any part of the city today, official sources said.The curfew relaxation periods passed off peacefully, the sources said.The authorities have banned the entry into the city of IS Muslim leaders including the Shahi Imam of the Jama Masjid, Mauiana Syed Abdulla Bukhari, and the Balm Masjid action committee chief, Syed Shahbuddin.The army deployment in the city was withdrawn; last night following improvement' in the situation.APPEAL FOR PEACE (PT1 from New Delhi): The Uttar Pradesh home minister Mr Gopinath Dikshit, saidReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Tension in Pune: 4 people stabbedOur Special CorrespondentThe Times of India (1861-current); Jan 28, 1982; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 5Tension in Pune:4 people stabbedBy Our Special CorrespondentPUNE. January 27: Tension prevails in the Bhavani Petb area where four persons received serious knife injuries when a group of young men shouted slogans on the compulsory singing of.“Vande . Mataranv” last night. ;';	.	. ..	.The stabbings were preceded by a puja organised by the Patit. Pavan Sanghatana. a youth organisation.As news* of the stabbings spread, shopkeepers in the Cantonment area and on the busyi l..axmi Road downed their shutters antf several roads bore a deserted look.Five persons were picked up by the police, who rushed to the scene of the violence promptly: In a combing operation ' later, five more anti-social elements were arrested.The leaders of. the sanghatana alleged that a political parly was patronising these anti-social elements.Ten persons were detained for spreading rumours while 14 goondas were taken into preventive custody. ''Hie city police chief. Mr. S. Rama-murti. said the situation was under control. However, peace committees had been formed and their meetings would be held in different parts of the city.The mayor, Mr/ Bubanrao Padwal,Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿POLICE PICKETS IN RAIPURThe Times of India (J86J-current); May 30, 1961; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 5POLICE PICKETS IN RAIPUR Communal TensionRAIPUR, May 29: Police pickets ?cre posted at the Nayapara ward ere yesterday following tension be-ween two communities as a result if the alleged maltreatment of a girl donging to one community by some ouths of the other community.It was stated that the girl had (;one to take her bath in a nearby , ank with her sister when the youths —residing in the same ward—were illeged to have maltreated her.Report of the incident created tendon and a crowd of over 1,000 persons collected in the area.	_Elders of both communities pacified the crowd and asked them to disperse. The police also arrived on the spot.One youth has been arrested in this connection.Pak TrespassJALPA1GURI (W. Bengal), May 29: Fifty Pakistani police constables, led by a havildar, crossed into the Indian territory within Rajganj Police Station recently and attempted to lift some head of cattle from a village, according to authoritative information received here.It is stated that when the local people tried to intercept the Pakistanis, the latter retreated after firing at random on the villagers. No one was reported to have been injured as a result, of the firing.The havildar’s uniform left behind was later taken charge of by the'local authorities.—P.T.I.City News In BriefThe condition of Acharya • Vijaya Labdhisuriji Maharaj, who has been suffering from cardiac trouble and rheumatoid arthritis, was improving, according to a bulletin issued by hisdoctors in Bombay on Monday.*	*	*Nearly 370 tolas of gold, valued at more than Rs. 50,000, was seized by the Bombay Customs authorities from the s.s. Dwarka, during the week end. ' *	*	.	*Mr. M. B. Panse, Additional Collector of Thana, has been appointed Collector of the district in the place of Mr. V. D. Gangal, who has beer posted as Collector of Bombay.•	*	*More than 1,000 dock workers stag ed a demonstration in front of th< office of the Deputy Manager of ~th< Docks Department, in Bombay, oi Monday, to ventilate their grievances The demonstration was organised b; the National Dock Workers’ Union.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Large-scale violence predicted in U.P.Yogesh VajpeyiThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Mar 31, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of Indiapg. 1By Yogesh VajpeyiThe Times of India News Service LUCKNOW. March 30.THE almost simultaneous outbreak of communal violence in Saharanpur, Hardoi, Etah and Mau districts in Uttar Pradesh during the last three days has confirmed intelligence agencies' fears that Uttar Pradesh will witness “unprecedented violence” during the run-up to the polls.All the districts affected by communal clashes, ironically, arc those where, the superintendents of police had been transferred during last week's pre-election mass transfers. The new police chiefs in some cases — like Saharanpur — had not joined or had little time to settle down.With two more bodies being found in Saharanpur, where violence erupted on Wednesday, the toll has gone upto 11, a police official here said. Two persons were killed in clashes in Mau on Thursday. No casualties have been reported in communal violence in Pihani town in Hardoidistrict, though there arc reports of exchange of fire between two groups resulting in injuries to six.In Saharanpur, riots were triggered by the stoning of a religious procession by another community. In Pihani, violence broke out following the simultaneous use of loudspeakers from two religious places belonging to two communities. In Etah, an attempt was made to whip up passions by’ desecrating a place of worship. In Mau, a minor dispute led to a murder and this triggered a communal confrontation.Senior police officials discern a sinister pattern in these incidents.Mass transfers of nearly 50 IPS officers and an equal number of IAS officers on the eve of the elections have created a piquant situation in a large number of communally-sensitivc districts. The state, as well as central intelligence agencies, have warned that the passions generated by the Mandal and temple issues will add a new dimension to electoral violence in the state this time.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew in Hyderabad againThe Times of India (J86J-current); Sep 4, 1978; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Curfew inagainHYDERABAD,. September 3 (UNI After an uneasy calm in Hyderabr for four days, trouble erupted aga today with a clash between tv groups and attempted arson “in tl traditionally vulnerable areas” in . tlu!u Lily.Twenty-six people were injured in the clashes and were admitted to hospital, the police said.The police swung into action immediately and. extended curfew to the four areas under the jurisdiction, of Chaderghat police station namely Dabirpura, Yakutpura, Rain Bazar and Chaderghat Bridge. 'Authorities, claimed that by imposing curfew at noon today the situation was brought under control in the newly affected areas by 3 p.m.Meanwhile, Curfew was relaxed in the Sabzimandi and Mangalhat areas from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. today and no incidents were reported from those parts till the afternoon, the police said.	■The trouble, in Dabirpura started when, tbe idols of the “seven sisters” in the Pochamma temple were found missing and the precincts polluted. This infuriated the • people, who went round the area urging the' shopkeepers to down their shutters.'When this was resisted, there was a clash between two groups resulting in injuries to 26 people. .. The mob also damaged some kirana shops, a bakery and attempted to set fire to a house. A. few shops were said to have been • damaged.Meanwhile, police dogs were reported to have retrieved the missing idols.	.PTI adds:Stating that the situation was under control, the home minister, Mr. M: M. Hashim, said this evening that investigations had been taken up on tbe incident which sparked the trouble.The commissioner of police, Mr. P. V. Pavitran, said nearly 80 unsocial elements had been rounded up by late afternoon from the affected localities' and the arrests were continuing.. Fifteen houses were attempted to be set on fire when violent incidents occured in the Chandranagar Brahmanwada, Bada Bazar, Miadanna-pet and Ohanchalguda areas this morning. .. Some cases of looting and attempts to molest women were also reported.	.Man opens fireHYDERABAD* September 3 (PTI): A resident of Chandranagar, within the Rain Bazar police station in old Hyderabad city, Venkaiah, opened fire this morning when some peopiq . were attempting to molest women members of his family, according to police- sources.The miscreants ran away immediately and it was not '-fmown whether anyone ' was injured as a result of the fir:ng.	_Venkaiah later surrendered his weapon to the police.Sanjiva is painedHYDERABAD, September 3 (UNI): President Sanjiva Reddy said here today that he was much pained at the disturbances in Visakhapatnam and Hyderabad last week.. ’,President Reddy was talking to newsmen at Hyderabad airport during his one-hour halt en route to Madras by a special IAF plane.The President said that Hyderabad has the decent tradition of cordiality and amity. “It is my hope that all sane people will help in restoration of normalcy.	.Madras:	President Sanjiva Reddyarrived here this evening from Delhi.Id on Tuesday, says BukhariNEW DELHI, September 3 (PTI): Id will be observed on Tuesday, Syed Abdullah Bukhari, Imam of the Jama Masjid here, said today.According to the Imam, as the Id moon had not been sighted today, Id-ul-Fitr would not be observed tomorrow,	■IP’s messagePATNA, September 3 (PTI): .Mr, Jayaprakash. Narayan has called upon the people to celebrate Id-ul-Fitr in a true national spirit to help strengthen- the bonds of national unity.' 	' .In a message on Id-eye, Mr. Narayan said, “I wish Id mubarak to ail • my countrymen, specially to my Muslim brethren. It is a day of rejoicing not only for Muslims, but for the entire nation. . Id, Dushera, Holi, Christmas, Guru Nanak’s day and Nauroz are lnd:a’s national festivals and they should be celebrated as such.	•“Id-miian symbolises the spirit 'of love and brotherhood that binds this nation. ■ I hope-. and trust the people of the country will celebrate this day in a true national spirit and thus help strengthen the bend of national unity, Mr. Narayan said. •	■Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Tripura villagers kill man, wound fourThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 24, 1985; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 7Tripura villagers kill man, wound fourAGARTALA, September 23 (PTI): Villagers hacked to death one person and injured four others, including a woman, at Pushkarini, under Sidhai police station in West district, about 15 km from here yesterday, according to the police.MOB TEAR-GASSED (UNI): The police used tear-gas to disperse a stone-throwiflg crowd at Ranebennur,100 km from Hubli, on Sunday night.Tire police said the trouble started,	Ywhen miscreants threw stones at a ganesha procession. The processionists s asked the police to take action.	hReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿7 more die in TN violenceThe Times of India (J86J-current); May 25, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 17 more dieNEW DELHI, May 24.THE toll in the flare-up following the assassination of the former prime minister, Rajiv Gandhi, rose to 20 today with nine more persons killed in Tripura and Tamil Nadu. However. calm returned to the other states aflcctcd bv violence, reports PTI.While seven deaths were reported from Tamil Nadu, two persons lost their lives in Tripura where a red alert was issued and curfew reimposed in the capital, Agartala, following unabated violence.Bandits were observed in most of the states to mark the funeral of the Congress president who fell to a bomb blast on Tuesday in Sriperum-budur, Tamil Nadu. Prayer meetings were also held in many places.Tamil Nadu bore the brunt of the killings with 11 deaths yesterday. Today, seven persons were killed in the state. Several persons were injured when police fired buckshots on clashing mobs in Sathyavanimulhu nagar in the state capital.Normal life in the state continued to remain disrupted with public transport off the roads. Several places in the state arc facing a shortage of milk and other essential commodities due to traffic dislocation.Congress and C'PM workers clashed at Udaypur, in Tripura resulting in the death of two persons as violence continued to spread to several parts of the state. The state capital of Agartala and Bishalgarh were brought under curfew.Two persons took their lives in Tamil Nadu yesterday unable to bear the shock of Rajiv Gandhi’s death. Two others who tried to commit suicide yesterday arc undergoing treatment in hospitals. The chief secretary of Tamil Nadu, Mr T.V. Antony, told journalists here today that 2,714 ‘anti-social elements’ had been arrested for specific offences and also as a precautionary measure till this morning.The transport secretary, Mr R. Sanihanam said 133 buses were damaged and 22 were completely burnt in the violence in the last three days.Mr Antony said the four deaths in clashes yesterday were reported from Karuvanvalasu (Dindigul-Quaid-e-Milleth district), Sambalmedu (Coimbatore rural), Attayamp^ti (Salem) and Vardanur in Madurai rural district.The two persons who took their lives hailed from Dindigul-Quaid-c-Millcth and Periyar districts, while Thanjavur and Tiruchirapalli districts witnessed the other two attempts at suicide.In Madras city, though police had given adequate bandobust, the unions of the crew resisted the manage-(C ontinued on page 13)inviolenceReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.(Continued from Page 1) ment’s attempts to run the buses before the cremation of Rajiv Gandhi’s body at Delhi was over.Mr Antony said in Madras police had hired about 100 private vehicles including lorries to take up intensive patrolling, so that people could carry on their normal activities. This was in addition to the routine patrols.Appealing to people to maintain calm, he said he was confident that the situation would improve by tomorrow.He said extra vigilance had been provided in coastal areas. Precautions and special surveillance had been undertaken in areas where Sri Lankan refugee camps had been set up so that no one would leave the camps.An effigy of the LTTE supremo, Mr Vclupillai Prabhakaran, was burnt by some AIADMK workers at Palayamkotlai in Tirunelveli Kat-tabomman district of Tamil Nadu, last night, according to police sources here.AIADMK men also burnt the effigies of former Tamil Nadu chief minister, Mr M. Karunanidhi at Kot-tur village in Coimbatore district and Shevapet in Chengai Anna district last night.	.In Coimbatore, a 45-year-old man, said to be an AIADMK sympathiser, was beaten to death at Thirumurthy nagar near Udumalpct yesterday.The incident occurred at Sam-balmedu area in Coimbatore district rural police limits soon after a procession organised by Congress and AIADMK men to mourn Rajiv Gandhi’s death.A police party on patrol dulywhich reached the spot arrested six persons allegedly involved in attacking the man. Four others injured in the incident have been hospitalised.In another incident at Irugur village near Coimbatore, two persons were injured when they were attacked by members of two parties following a dispute over damage to banners and flags. The police have arrested 20 persons in this connection.Meanwhile, nearly 150 persons have been taken into preventive custody in the entire district including 70 in the city by the police to prevent any untoward incident. Besides, 33 persons were arrested for specific offences.While the situation in Coimbatore district is by and large peaceful, there is no vehicular traffic here, with buses and heavy vehicles keeping off the roads for the third day today.In Hyderabad, normal life in the twin cities and several other towns in Andhra Pradesh continued to be severely affected with shops, markets and other business establishments including banks remaining closed for the third consecutive day today.Curfew which was imposed in several coastal Andhra towns and parts of the city from Wednesday, was lifted yesterday following improvement in the situation.Barring sporadic incidents of stone-pelting, the situation was reported to be “peaceful and under control” in the state today, the police said.	'In Karnataka business establishments, shops and cinema houses remained closed in Nanjangud town in Mysore district, Mysore, Gtilbarga,Mangalore, KGF and Raichur.The police said no untoward incident had been reported from any part of the state.Most cities in U.P., Haryana and Himachal Pradesh also observed bandhs.In Kanpur curfew was relaxed for four hours from 11 a.m. today in all the .curfew-bound areas of Kanpur following steady improvement in the law and order situation.The district magistrate, Mr Kapal Deo, told journalists that no untoward incident was reported during the curfew relaxation period.In Varanasi, too curfew was relaxed in a phased manner for five hours today in various parts of the city,A partial bandh was observed in Punjab and Haryana today as a mark of respect to the former prime minister, Rajiv Gandhi.Shops and commercial establishments were closed at most places in the two states, an official spokesman said. Bus and train services, however, were normal. There was no untoward incident reported from anywhere, the spokesman said.Normal life was paralysed in Himachal Pradesh following closure of all government and private establishments, educational institutions, banks, commercial establishments and courts.Several towns and cities in Rajasthan today observed a bandh, No untoward incident has been reported from anywhere.Peace prevailed in Calcutta and elsewhere in West Bengal as the police continued to patrol sensitive areas.Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka consoling each other on the former’s arrival at Indira Gandhi International airport. New Delhi, on Thursday. — TOIReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿FIRE OPENED ON POLICEThe Times of India (1861-current); Nov 28, 1952; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 7FIRE OPENED ON POLICEIncident Near JammuJAMMU. November 27: One police constable was injured todav when some members of a procession opened Are at the police at Samba. 25 miles from here on the Jammu-Pathankot Road, according to reports received bv the authorities here.The police opened fire and dispersed the procession. No casualty was reported.The reports said that when the police attempted to arrest Thalcut Raghunath Singh, a wanted man who was leading a procession taken out in the afternoon, the crowd prevented them from doing so. In the scuffis that followed, one police constable was injured. The police opened fire and the procession dispersed. Thakur Raghunath Singh is still absconding.In Jammu city three persons were arrested today. Two Praja Parishad volunteers were taken into custody while they were leading a procession and the third was arrested for throwing a missile at a police official. The city is otherwise normal.—P.T.I.TECHNOLOGICAL INSTITUTE Site SelectedThe Government of India has selected a 525-acre site at Kurla, Bombay, for the Western Technological Institute, it was reliably learnt in Bombay on Thursday.The institute, which will cost two crores of rupees, will be on the line of the Kharagpur Technological Institute. Mr. S. S. Bhat-nagar, Secretary, Ministry for Research and Natural Resources, who recently visited Bombay, decided upon the site in consultation with the Government of Bombay.The building work is expected to commence early next year.Relic ReturnedThe relic of St. Francis Xavier which was stolen from St. Francis Xavier's church at Dabul, Gir-gaum, Bombay, on Tuesday, was returned to the church authorities on Thursday as mysteriously as it was lost.The relic, enclosed In an envelope, was found lying on the top of vestments in the church. The envelope was noticed by a priest just before he said his Mass.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿5 killed in Varanasi riotsThe Times of India (J86J-current); Nov 10, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 15	killed in Varanasi riotsLUCKNOW Nov. «: An indefinite curfew was damped in two towns of Uttar Pradesh after five people were killed and several injured in dashes during religious processions yesterday, according to UNI.Five people were killed and 25 injured in arson, brickbatting and stabbing in Varanasi last night The clashes began when crackers were burst during a procession, carrying a statue of Kaliji for immersion. The police used lathis and tear gas to disperse the dashing mobs.Curfew was imposed in Dashswamedh, Bhelupura, Luxa, chowk, Adampura, Jaitpura, Kotwali and Chetganj in the town. The police said four people died on the spot while one succumbed to injuries in a hospital.Some shops were also set on fire. Police jawans were now patrolling the areas. No fresh reports of violence have come from the affected area since last night.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Orissa riots spread; toll 15Mishra, Law Kumar;The Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Apr 1, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 1Orissa riots spread; toll 15By LAW KUMAR MISHRA The Times of India News Service HHAUKAK (Onssa), March 31:While lhe situation in Bhadrak and Soro towns continues to be bad, communal tension today engulfed some fresh areas in the district.the police ciaimea to nave recovered three bodies from Meghmadhab and Champua villages on the Bhadrak-Soro road. The bodies were found floating in a village tank, they added.The toll in the Bhadrak riots has gone up to 15 with the recovery of three njore bodies and the death of one’‘more riot victim.Thk recovery of the three bodies has heightened tension in Balasore district. Police patrolling has been intensified in Soro and Bhadrak and the neighbouring villages as well.Theauthorities admit the situation is still tense but under control. Riots started in Bhadrak last Sunday during the Ram Navami procession. However, no fresh incident of arson was reported today.Prohibitory orders continue at Soro, while Bhadrak has been under curfew for the last one week. Curfew was relaxed for three hours from 10 a.m. to I p.m. The home secretary,Mr Sahdev Sahood, said the(Continued on Page 3)r~..........	1	■Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.(Continued from Page 1)authorities were keeping a constant watch on the situation and if then was any improvement more relaxation may be granied. The chief minister has asked the state civil suppliei corporation to open ten more retail outlets for essential commodities at Bhadrak.House-to-house searches continue in Soro. In Bhadrak and Soro all men were detained in phases and broughi: to the police stations for interrog ation. Innocent men were allowed tc return. About 50 men have beer arrested on substantive charges, the police said here. From some houser all men have fled to escape police action.The authorities claimed grand success in the drive to find stolen and looted items. From one of the houses the police recovered Rs 2.5-lakkhs in cash. The cash was looted from the shop of a leading trader at Chandan Bazaar, the worst-affected area in Bhadrak. From another house the police recovered a locked iron chest. It was stolen from the pedhi (firm) of another trader. The police are trying to locate the owner.The items which have been recovered include garments, shoes and even sortie tins of biscuits, all items were looted as soon as the riots broke out and people deserted their shops in panic. The police said they are concentrating on the combing operations to flush out rioters and unearth the looted goods.Meanwhile, the authorities are likely to prevent the BJP leader, Mr Alai Behari Vajpayee, from entering the town tomorrow. The authorities said there was a feeling that the RSS and the BJP were behind the riots and Mr Vajpayee’s presence in the town may aggravate the situation.Regarding the Rqjasthan chief minister, Mr Bhairon Singh Shekhawat, a senior official said, “The decision should be taken at thehighest level. He should talk to his counterpart at Bhubaneswar if he is coming as the chief minister of another state. Mr Vajpayee and Mr Spekhawat are likely to reach Orissa eariy tomorrow morning and after a brief stay at Bhubaneswar they will proceed to Bhadrak.Meanwhile, a 100-member peace committee comprising people from different sections of society has been formed by the Balssore district collector under his chairmanship. The committee will take out a “shanti padyatra in Bhadrak and Soro.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew after poll clashes in AllahabadThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Feb 23, 1971; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Curfew after poll clashes in Allahabad•*Th» Timet of India” News ServiceALLAHABAD, February 22.r /'URFEW was imposed in the city area, following a clash - C/ between two groups of election campaigners here today. ' The curlew will remain in |1	'	'	“	“force till 7-30 a.m. tomorrow,Twenty-five people have been rounded up in connection with the violent dashes.cases oi arson were aiso repot icu.Fire engines were rushed to the chowk area to extinguish Ires.The trouble was triggered by some miscreants who threw brickbats at an election procession organised by the Hindu Muhasabha. it is reported.A heavy police force was rushed to the area. The police allegedly used force to disperse the rioters. This enraged the mob which set fire to some shops in the locality.PROHIBITORY ORDERSThe district magistrate has promulgated prohibitory ordeis under Sec.144, Cr. P.C., throughout the district till March 20 as a precautionary measure in view of the mid-term poll.All shops were immediately closed as news of the clash spread panic in the city: area.	'Schools and colleges were also closed early to enable students to reach their homes sal'ely.The number of people injured in the clash is not known.U.N.l. adds:The oolice said the senior superintendent oi police had fired several rounds in the air to disperse violent mobs. Hospital sources said many people were admitted with bullet injuries and the condition of two of them was serious. The police subsequently said two persons had gunshot wounds.EXCHANGE OP' STONESThe Congress (R) general secretary.Mr. H. N. Bahuguna. and the Congress (O) leader. Mr. Mungla Prasad, are among the candidates seeking election to the Lok Sabha from Allahabad.The clash, which led to the imposition1 of a 24-hour curfew over the affected areas, did not involve their supporters.The trouble starteJ when a candidate took out a nroeC'xiun to protest against certain remarks said to have been made by another candidate. When the procession passed the election office of the other candidate, it was stoned. This led to an exchange oi stones by two groups. 'Many people. including the city magistrate. Mr. K. R. bhah. and the police superintendent. Mr. R. P.Govjl. were injuted in the stonethrowing.Magistrates alertedLUCKNOW. February 22: The Uttar Pradesh Government today alerted all district magistrates to take steps to prevent any untoward incident, following the Allahabad incident this morning.An official spokesman told newsmen that the Government had asked inparticular the district magistrates ot Muzafi'arnagar. Salniranpar. Bijnor and Mirzapnr to ensure that the Allahabad clash did not have its repercussions in these places.— U.N.l.Sec Pa^e 3Three women wore killed on *.ac -.pot ami about 6U others received .n-luries when a balcony packed will) a nGirivv-’e party collapsed in Makhdoom-3ur village on Saturday night, according to information reaching the d:--.iLl iieadquai Lcis in Barabanki on Monday.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿POLICE FIRE ON GAYA MOBThe Times of India (J86J-current); Oct 19, 1953; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1POLICE FIRE ON GAYA MOB Durga Puja Incident“The Times of India'’ News Service PATNA, October 18:	Thepolice fired two rounds yesterday evening at Aurangabad in Gaya district to keep the peace when a Durga procession was passing near a mosque.Nobody was wounded. Ten persons were arrested.-It Was stated that brickbats were thrown at the procession, injuring eight persons. The police attempted to pacify the people before being impelled to open fire. The Police Commissioner of Patna bivision has rushed to Aurangabad.Ten members of the Indian Industrial mission, led by Mr. Murarji Vaidya, arrived in Tokyo on Sunday for gaining first-hand knowledge of industrial facilities in Japan.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Meerut town tense after clash: 8 heldOur Staff CorrespondentThe Times of India (1861-current); Jan 4, 1982; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Meerut town tense after clash: 8 heldBy Oar Staff CorrespondentMEERUT, January 3:TENSION continued to prevail in the Sardhana area, 25 km. from here, following a clash between two groups of people yesterday evening.Three peop’e who sustained injuries in the clash yesterday, have been admitted to hospital here. The condition of one person, a rickshaw puller, who was beaten up this morning, is improving.The incident was triggered off following a complaint lodged with the police by a member of the minority community that eight people, including three brothers whom be named, had attacked him and inflicted a knife injury on him.Soon after, about 100 people belonging to both communities confronted each other and indulged in brickbatting. A halwai’s shop was damaged. Around the same time, some passengers who alighted from a bus, were hit by stones. The police arrived and dispersed the mob.PEACE PANELSEight people have been taken into custody. Senior police and district officials rushed to the spot and intensive PAC patrolling was started.Since this morning, efforts are being made to defuse the situation. A 22-member peace committee has been formed. Mohalla peace committees are also being formed.The'district magistrate, Mr. Shanbhu Nath, and the senior superintendent of police, Mr. M. C. Rawat, on their return from the Sardhana area, claimed that the situation was under control.The superintendent of police (rural), Mr. Shailendra Sagar, is camping in the area.UNI adds: Prohibitory orders under section 144 Cr.P.C. were today issued in Sardhana, a small town in Meerut and eight people arrested following disturbances there.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿100 injured in Srinagar clashThe Times of India (1861-current); Feb 16, 1986; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1100 injured in Srinagar clashSRINAGAR, February 15.(UNI & PTI).ATI 40T least 100 people, including policemen, were injured when mobs protesting spinet the reopening of the Rim Ini' mabhoomi temple at Ayodhya clashed with the police hcee today.While police sources aid dm Mag was resorted to whan aMd cfc-gism tear-gassing fluted to control the mdbg. the deputy, iueperler grnaml (DIO)of police, Mr. S. S. AH, no firing took place.According to polioe seriously inured people had been at mitted to hoptaL They said pe d them, s youth, had received sariows bead injuries in the potto* Ariafr>Mr. Ah said trouble ,itait*i nbab unruly mobs, shouting AasMpdip slogans, indulged in bricihaMhlQafc^. forcing dmpkeopm toThe mobs pieced ruadMocis atcity bus services, were mpmhi Thousands of commuters, indddini office-goers, weir stranded. ,	•More than 12 miscraaau weee arrested, a senior police spokesman mi*.When the mob* weal on a ranpaga, the police lathi-charped to dhperae them.They dispersed only to icgrouplaier in larpc numbers at different places and pelted itWs oo the police and civilian property. ,	.A police spokesman said that the situation was brought under control around noon.However, life in the rest of the city as well as in other parts of the Kashmir Valley-remained unaffected.In Uttar Pradesh, the situation was peaceful today with no untoward indent reported from Lucknow and Meerut, where sporadic violence erupted following a bandh call given byReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.> rtf*#' i
﻿Police lathi-charge in VaranasiThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Dec 29, 1992; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Police lathi-chargein VaranasiThe l imes of India News ServiceVARANASI, December 28: The Police resorted to lathi-charge near the chowk police station here today when a massive crowd tried to force its way through the barricades around the Kashi-Vishwanath temple for having a darshan of Lord Vishwanalh.More than 60,000 devotees, including women, started queuing up to have darshan around the temple complex. The police resorted to a lathi-charge when the crowd became unmanageable.Tension has been mounting in the city ever since the authorities erected barricades and deployed security forces to protect the Gyanwapi mosque, adjacent to the Kashi-Vishwanath temple.Last Friday, more than 5,000 people had gathered at the mosque to offer Namaz. Many see the unprecedented crowd at the temple as a reaction to the gathering at the mosque.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Prohibitory orders in KishanganjThe Times of India (1861-current); Mar 26, 1982; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 14Prohibitory orders in KishanganjBy Onr CorrespondentKISHANGANJ, March 25: Prohibitory orders under sec. 144 Cr. P.C. banning the carrying of arms and lethal weapons and assembly of five or more persons have been enforced in the town following a clash between two groups on Tuesday. ‘The clash followed a. dispute over the display of banners relating to a proposed yagna. Policemen are patrolling the town.	...•Meanwhile, a bandit was observed today in protest against the alleged assault on four persons connected with the Yag.it They have been admitted to hospital.	.	.Both groups have lodged complaints with the police malting allega? tions and counter-allegations.Mr. M. K. Das, district magistrate and Mr. R. P. Singh, Superintendent of police, rushed to Kishanganj from Purnea on receipt of information about the clash. ■	'	■	'	,No arrest has been made so far, :Cong:. (I) MLAs’ talksBy A Staff Reporter xBOMBAY, March 25 i ~A meeting of the Congress (I) members of tiio Maharashtra legislative assembly is scheduled to be held on Sunday at 6 p.m. at the Sahyadri guest house regarding Monday’s election to the Rajya Sabha from, the assembly constituency. ■The meeting has been convened by the legislative affairs minister, Mr, Shivajirao Patil-Nilangekar.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Firing to disperse mob in AhmedabadThe Times of India (J86J-current); May 26, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Firing to dispersemob in AhmedabadAHMEDABAD, May 25 (UNI): The police fired four rounds and burst two teargas shells to disperse a group of people belonging to a certain community in the city’s Sgraspur area at midnight yesterday.Police officials said a police patrol had earlier tried to persuade the clashing group to disperse, failing which two teargas shells were burst.When the people started hurling stones at the police, four rounds were fired.One police constable was injured in the stone-throwing. Six persons have been arrested on charges of rioting and attacking men in uniform.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿28 held for arson in FaridabadThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Apr 8, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of Indiapg. 1028 held for arson in FaridabadThe Times of India News ServiceNEW DELHI, April 7: Cases of rioting and arson that damaged a place of worship, a timber godown and many kiosks, rocked the industrial town of Faridabad on Friday night. Twenty-eight people were nabbed.Rumours of cows being slaughtered at the Dabua police post sparked ofTthe riots, according to the area senior superintendent of police,Mr Resham Singh. ‘The fact was that a tempo with old cow skins in it was stopped for checking at the Dabua post. But, some mischievous persons spread the rumour that cows were slaughtered,” he said.A little later, a large unruly crowd gathered and set a place of worship on fire. The crowd soon swelled and spread in different directions, setting shops and kiosks ablaze, Mr Singh said. “A big timber godown was burnt down, he added.According to Mr Singh, the fire brigade was pressed into service, which put out the fire immediately.He said the place of worship, which was under construction, was saved from total destruction.“The rioting continued from 7.30 p.m. to 2 a.m. We brought the situation under control by 2 in the morning.” he said.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Religious Rights Of ChristiansThe Times of India (J86J-current); Apr 13, 1950; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 3Religious Rights Of ChristiansBANGALORE BISHOP’SASSURANCE'-------------TRICHUR, April 12; The Christian minority in the various component-parts of India had no cause for misgivings on the score of liberty of conscience and worship, the Rt. Rev. Dr. p. Thomas, Bishop of Bangalore, said here yesterday.Dr Thomas, who was inaugurating the 25th annual session of the Kerala Catholic Congress at Oilur, four miles from here, added that the new Indian Constitution had guaranteed to all citizens the fundamental rights of religion, including the freedom to profess, practise and propagate one’s faith.Messages wishing the Congress success were received from the Bishops of Bombay, Madras and Mangalore-The session will last three days.— P.T.I.PRESIDENT’S VISIT TO I. N. SHIPS C.-in-C. ThankedNEW DELHI, April 12: Following his recent visit to the ships of the Indian Navy in Bombay, the President, Dr. Rajendra Prasad, in a letter addressed to the Defence Minister says:I write to say how very pleased T was to visit the I. N. Ships DELHI and RAN A last Wednesday in Bombay. I was much impressed with all that I saw on board, particularly with the smart turn-out and bearing of the officers and men of our Navy.My visit has further strengthened my belief in the great future of the Indian Navy and I wish the officers and men serving on land and sea, all success in their future endeavour.I shall be glad if you will kindly convey my thanks and appreciation to the Commander-in-Chief, Indian Navy, and the officers and men under his command for the opportunity which they provided me to visit the ships and for the excellent arrangement that was made in connection with my visit.”PAKISTAN NEWS AGENCY Triiist FormedLAHORE, April 12: The formation of a national trust to control and administer the Associated Press of Pakistan was announced today. The trust, which will be known as the Eastern News Trust, was registered in Karachi early this week by Malik Tajuddin, General Manager of the Associated Press of Pakistan, who will be the Managing Trustee-The Chief Justice of Pakistan is to nominate the Chairman of the Board of Trustees.—P.T.I.Jamshedpur ClashJAMSHEDPUR, April 11:	Lathisand stones were used in a free fight last evening between a group ofR.S.S. men and some boys over the use of a plot of land, at Kadma Colony, that belonged to neither of themA dozen persons were injured before the police arrived on the scene and dispersed the rival parties,It is stated that the R.S.S. group wanted to use the land for their parades, while the boys wanted it as a playground, though neither had the permission of the rightful owner of the land.—P.T.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Gen. Vaidya calls for vigilanceThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jan 16, 1986; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9Gen. Vaidya calls for vigilanceThe Times of India News Servic NEW DELHI, January 15. HTHE chief of the army staf A Gen. A. S. Vaidya, today callei upon army officers and jawans ti be prepared to ensure that m power in the worl<J dared eras into Indian territory. He said thi Indian army had always given i befitting reply to aggressors.Addressing army personnel on th occasion of the Army Day parade here Gen. Vaidya said he was confident tha the army was matchless, even though i did not possess as sophisticate* weapons as some other nations. It wa owing to the Indian soldiers' love fo their country and devotion to duty tha they had never been defeated. He sai( he was confident that the soldier would maintain unity and shov courage and valour.Field Marshal Cariappa arrived a the Parade ground dressed in a blacl suit and donning a felt hat. He waver at the cheering crowd of spectators.At the parade, Gen. Vaidya pres ented 15 Sena medals and 28 Vishish Seva medals for distinguished anc dedicated service.The grand finale to the colourful ceremony was provided by a flypast by five air observation post helicopters ol the artillery.Kite-flying claims 7 in GujaratAHMEDABAD, January 15 (PTI] Uttarayan or the kite-flying fete has s far claimed seven lives and left ove 120 others, including several teenage boys and girls, injured either due to fal from rooftops or in petty quarrels ii various parts of Gujarat.While a youth was fatally stabbe following a quarrel over kite-flying ii Surat, six were killed in various town of the state yesterday, according ti latest reports received here.Meanwhile, no fresh incident wa reported from the city, Surat, am Baroda where a number of brick batting incidents occurred yesterday the state police control said.UNI adds; At least 26 persons wen injured in a violent clash between tw< groups and 20 shops were set ablaze b; miscreants in sudden eruption of viol ence in Baria town in central Gujarat’: Panchmahals district late last night official sources said here today. .The trouble had started following s skirmish between two persons at a loca cinema hall.Senior police officials rushed to th< town from the district headquarters o Dodhra with additional reinforccmen and the situation was brought undei control.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Mob attacks police: 54 injuredThe Times of India (J86J-current); Mar 30, 1969; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Mob attacks54 injuredCALCUTTA, March 29.T least 54 people, including 14police personnel, were injured when a violent, mob attacked a police party with deadly weapons at Mahesh in the Serampore subdivision of Hooghly district this afternoon.According to Mr. S. K. Guha Ma-zumdar, superintendent of police, Hooghly, the police made lathi-charges and burst about ten tear-gas shells to disperse the unruly mob.About 150 people were arrested.Orders under Section 144 CR. P.C. have been issued and curfew has been imposed in parts of Rishra and Mahesh police station areas between 6 p.m. and 6 a.m.The clash took place over the cutting of & branch of a banyan tree to enable the Muharrum procession to pass. While branches of two trees had been cut, the owner of the other tree objected to it. An agreement was ultimately reached that if the passage of the procession was obstructed by the branch, arrangement would be made to make room for the procession to pass. But as soon as the processionists reached the spot, they became violent and violated the agreement and an altercation ensued with the police personnel escorting them.The processionists became 'Very violent” and when despite warning they did not disperse and attacked the police with brick-bats, crackers, lathis, iron rods, spears, knives and swords. The police had no other alternative but to resort to lathi-charge. This having proved ineffective, the police had to burst about ten rounds of tear-gas shells. A sub-inspector of police sustained injuries in the brickbatting.The police also seized a large number of deadly weapons form the processionists.	*Meanwhile, strong police pickets had been posted all over the area and flying squads were patrolling the area.Accord violated—P.T.l.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿18 killed as riots rock 3 statesThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Nov 2, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1CURFEW IN 30 U.P. DISTRICTS18 killed as riots rock 3 statesHie Times of India News ServiceNEW DELHI Nov. 1GOMMUNAL clashes and police firings claimed 18 lives in Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and Biliar today.Nine people were killed in rural Bijnore in U.P., as a fall-out of the riots that claimed nine lives in Bijnore town. The state administration is understood to have replaced the superintendent of police, Mr Praveen Singh, as a consequence, of the continued rioting., In Lucknow, the army staged a flag march following clashes in the old city last night which resulted ini two deaths. Indefinite curfew continued in the state capital as government offices and business establishments remained closed for the fourth day today.Security forces opened fire at a mob of 2,000 in Aligarh district this morning, which indulged in stonethrowing and damaged government Vehicles, The police opened fire in self-defence, but the toil, if any, was riot known.One person was killed in Dibai in Bulandshahar district this morning pne body Was recovered from the noi-hit Muzaffamagar where eight •tfveS were lost two days ago.' With the escalation of violence, the ,U.P. administration has clamped cforfew on 30 districts. The whole of Eastern U.P. has been placed undercurfew for the past fortnight as well as the Bundelkhand region adjoining Madhya Pradesh and western U.P.' Thirty-six long distance trains passing through U.P. have been cancelled for an indefinite period.Five people were killed in Hyderabad and neighbouring Ranga Reddy district in Andhra Pradesh today. There were seven stabbings during a three-hour relaxation of curfew and three of the stab victims succumbed to injuries.Violence has been mainly confined to the A.P. capital. No untoward incidents have been reported from other districts.Curfew has been extended till 6 a.m. on Saturday and there will be no relaxation in Hyderabad.Eleven people have been killed in the city after the imposition of curfew on the evening of October 29.The police arrested over 500 people today in connection with specific offences and as a preventive measure in Hyderabad. One hundred BJP workers, including the president of the state unit, Mr M. Venkaiah Naidu, and the general secretary, Mr B. Dattatreya, were arrested for staging a dhama in violation of the prohibitory orders. They were released later.In all, some 1,000 people! have been arrested in the city.Rioting in the curfew-bound Patna claimed two lives till this afternoon. One person was killed when two mobs exchanged fire in a clash at Sadar Gali near Paschim Darwaza around noon. The clash stemmed! from the damage to a place of worship.An unidentified body was recovered by the police from the railway tracks near Noon-Ka-Chauraha in the Bihar capital, where rioting had begun last night Frequent explosions of bombs and crackers occurred near Noon-Ka-Chauraha, Lodi-Ka-Katra and Fasad-Ki-Maidan, while at Gorhatta and Rani-Ki-Hkidki shops were burnt.	<Curfew which was initially clamped till this morning has now been extended for an indefinite period on the entire Patna city.PTI-& UNI add:According to a report from Ayodhya atieast 500 kar'sevaks are on a 40 hours “dhama” at the northern end of the “Saryu” river bridge protesting against refusal of entry into the Ram Janambhoomi.While the kar sevaks insist on offering “puja” at the Ram Janambhoomi, the authorities continue to impress upon them that in view of the indefinite curfew in the holy town, no permission for entry could be given.Meanwhile, the situation in the holy town and Faizabad continued to be tense on the sixth day of the imposition of the curfew.A large number of kar sevaks are still here in various “dharamshalas” and temples.The vice-president of the Ram Janambhoomi Mukti Yagna Samiti, Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, told a large congregation of devotees here last night to continue their movement peacefully for the construction of the Sri Ram temple.An official spokesman denied in (Continued on Page 11)Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.‘Kar sevaks’ at the ditTof the bridge on Sarayu river, surrounded by armed police, as they try to cross into Ayodhya on Thursday. The ‘kar sevaks’ were demonstrating after three bodies were nshed out of the river. —ri i.Curfew imposed on many U.P. towns(Continued from Page 1)New Delhi that the army was called out in Ayodhya to safeguard the disputed Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid complex.Reacting to news reports this evening, he said the army had only conducted a flag march in adjoining: Faizabad town.	1He added that no branch of police or paramilitary forces was “disarmed” as “mischievously reported” by some regional newspapers.He said the situation in Ayodhya was peaceful today, but a number of “kar sevaks were still there, presumably for the kartik paurnami dip in the Sarayu river.There were also reports that more kar sevaks probably held up on the, way were arriving in Ayodhya.The spokesman said local authorities in Ayodhya today fished out three bodies from the nearby Saryu river.On the law and order situation, he said tension and fresh communal incidents were reported from several parts of the country. Of the ten casualties in such incidents today, five were in Hyderabad, four in Baroda and one in Indore.The Union minister of state for home, MrSubodh Kant Sahay, today visited riot-hit areas in Ranchi and personally heard the people’s grievances.Mr Sahay, who arrived here by a JASF plane from New Delhi, visited Doranda, Hindpirhi, Karbala Chowk ind Chutia areas, along with the: authorities and listed the problems of he riot victims taking shelter in at east half-a-dozen relief camps.The minister assured the riot violins that their dietary rate would be mhanced from Rs 3.50 to Rs five per /ictim daily.He said that he would apprise the ’rime Minister, Mr V.P. Singh, about lietary scale so that a decision could x taken in this regard immediately.In Ayodhya the police ordered a search of the river Saryu here following the recovery of three decomposed t>odies with sand bags tied to their feet but authorities have denied that security forces had dumped bodies of ‘kar sevaks” killed in Tuesday’s viol-;nce into the river.They also insisted that the toll in October 30 violence still stood at six. ‘It would be 100 per cent wrong to say that the toll has increased to nine,” the district magistrate of Faizabad, Mr Ram Sharan Srivastava said.The district authorities in Gonda lave also denied the charge of dumping of bodies by security forces.Meanwhile, the administration in Faizabad district is making arrangements to transport kar sevaks out of \yodhya.Announcements are being made over the public address system asking kar sevaks to reach the bus depot where the buses were waiting to take them to their destinations. The administration is also trying to arrange some trains to take the kar sevaks out of the district.Curfew has been extended by another 24 hours upto 6 a.m. on Saturday.Meanwhile, police used teaigas and resorted to lathi-charge to disperse stone-pelting activists of the BJP in the Choak area of Jammu city today, a report says.The BJP activists were demanding the release of 25 party workers arrested in the city yesterday during the Jammu bandh.In Indore (MP) sporadic incidents of arson continued in the curfew bound Mhow cantonment town and old Indore localities but the situation was under control, an official spokesman said.The town, where indefinite curfew \vas clamped yesterday following disturbances, was peaceful, the spokesman said. .A report from Mhow said a DSP and two police jawans were injured along with 25 others in overnight incidents of arson, looting and bomb explosion. A total of 100 people were arrested in this connection.In Indore, incidents of arson were reported near Sunder Hotel near the railway station, Bhandari Mill and tension continued in Azadnagar and Bombay Bazar areas, the district collector, Mr S. V. Iyer, told PTI this morning.With one more person succumbing to injuries in hospital, the toll in the disturbances rose to 11, the spokesman added.The situation in the riot-tom cities of Jaipur, Jodhpur and Beawar remained peaceful during the curfew relaxation today.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Fifteen hurt in Karnataka firingThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 11, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 13Fifteen hurt in KarnatakaThe Times of India News Service BANGALORE, October 10.FIFTEEN people were injured, some critically, when the police opened fire at mobs trying to attack a place of worship in the curfew-bound town of Davangere in Chitradurga district this morning.Prohibitory orders have been promulgated in all district headquarters in Karnataka and scores of towns to cope with communal disturbances.At least 40 people were injured, including 20 policemen, as communal disturbances continued in the districts of Tumkur, Kodagu and spread to UUal in the coastal district of Dekshin Kannada and Dharwad in northern Karnataka, state police headquarters said here.The riots which have been raging throughout the state for over a week now have already claimed 45 lives and left scores injured.In Davangere, where 16 people in Ullal, previously unaffected by were killed so far, a mob of over 5,000 violence, two persons were seriously violated the curfew regulations and injured during the clashes this mom-attacked a place of worship. Unable ing. The police quelled the mobs after to contain the frenzied attempts to set a lathi-charge, it ablaze, police units fired at the	The police also caned andarsonists. Casualty figures were not teargassed crowds trying to take out immediately available.	a Ram Jyothi procession in DharwadThe police fired warning shots in this morning. A van carrying the Tumkur, also curfew-bound, to scare jyothi was seized by the police. Some away miscreants who burnt four ve- policemen and processionists were hides and set shops ablaze, hurling reportedly injured in the stone-molotov cocktails, the police said, throwing that followed the lathi-Lathi-charges were ordered in some chaige. parts of the town and a 50-year-old in Kolar, where communal viol-man _ was hospitalised with severe once so far claimed five lives, spor-stab injuries there.	adic inridents of arson continued. AIn Kodagu district, the police have lorry was burnt and clashes were been battling mobs who had set shops reported from villages near the gold-afire, attacked vehicles and blocked mining town. The police stopped a roads with felled trees since yester- Ram jyothi procession from being day. Some 20 policemen were injured taken out in Chikmangalure town. At near the town last night when at- least 30 people were reported to have tacked by stone-throwing crowds. been arrested.A bandh had been called in	TWO KITTED (PTI fromSomwarpet by the Vishwa Hindu Madias): Two persons were killed Parishad to protest against the dis- and several others iqjured when the trict administration’s refusal to allow polce fired on an unruly crowd at a Ram Jyothi procession.	Dhenkanikota in Tamil Nadu’sfiringDharmapuri district this afternoon.Ranchi (TOINS): One person was ; killed and four were injured when the police opened fire following a group, clash between two communities at Doranda last night, according to the sub-divisional officer, Mr Ramanand Singh. Indefinite curfew has been imposed on the town since 9 p.m. yesterday.	• ...According to unofficial reports, two people were stabbed in another locality of Doranda.TWO KILLED (PTI from Lucknow): The CRPF today staged flag march in Bijnore where two persons were killed and 20 injured, six seriously, in clahses between two communities yesterday, an official., spokesman said here.	.The situation in Bijnore town and adjoining villages, where violence erupted following rumours that the district president of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad had been kidnapped by member of another community, was ‘tense’ but ‘under control’, the Spokesman said.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿12 more killed in simmering MeerutThe Times of India (1861-current); May 25, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1MEERUT, May 24 (UNI):•TWELVE more people were -*• killed in this city during the past 24 hours, raising the toll in the six-day-old riots to 75 as curfew was imposed in several new’ areas today.An official spokesman said today that the number of casualties in yesterday evening's police firing in the Maliana area was seven, including one woman.Two unidentified bodies were brought to the local mcdiTal college this afternoon, college sources said. The bodies were those of the victims of yesterday's \ iolcnce in the Dorala are^, they said.	'Yesterday’s police firing followed a public protest against combing operations by the Provincial Armed Constabulary in the sensitive Maliana area. The police said they recovered two bodies from a cinema hall late last night.	<Curfew was imposed on several new areas today. An official spokesman told newsmen that this has been done in view of the situation in the riot-torncity. Now. only the civil lines and themedical college police stations areasare curfew-free.“The areas under curfew are still tense. he said. No major incidents were, however, reported since last night, he said.Tl)ere was no relaxation in curfew in any 'area today, the spokesman said. Supply and sale of essential commodities was also not possible, he told newsmen.Several oulstalion journalists in-cluding those from New Delhi were notgiven curfew passes to tour the affectedareas.The U.P. chief minister. Mr V. B. Singh, today visited the city to review the situation. This was his fourth visit in six days. The chief minister, accompanied by the home minister, held discussions with several high-ranking officials.* Mr V. B. Singh said the administration had been told to deal sternly with anti-social elements. The situation would be well under control within three days, he added.Meanwhile, police have rounded up another 800 people to take the total number of arrests to 2,500. Besides, a large quantity ofarmsand ammunition and some explosive material have seen seized.	,With the transfer of the city police superintendent, Mr B. K. Chaturvedi, indications are that more changes will be effected in the police set-up. The transfers have been kept in abeyance in view of the prevailing situation.PAC jawans were yesterday fired at by miscreants while conducting searches in the outlying Maliana area. In the reiurn fire by the police, five peoplewere killed, the police said. However, residents of the area claimed there were eight casualties.MEETINGS BANNED (UNI from Lucknow): The Uttar Pradesh government today banned public meetings, rallies and demonstrations in five of the 12 divisions and six districts in the state till June 10.This has been done to ensure communal amity and peaceful observance of td, later this month, official sources said today. The ban order coversdivisions of Agra, Meerut, Bareilly, Moradabad and Faizabad as well as the districts of Azamgarh, Lucknow, Varanasi, Kanpur, fatehpur and Allahabad.	.However, religious congregations would, remain exempted from the ban.Meanwhile, Mr Mandhata Singh and Mr Lallan Pandey, both members of the presidium of the Uttar Pradesh employees and teachers confederation, today announced they would go ahead with plans to hold a rally of government employees and teachers here on May 27. The former defence minister Mr. V. P. Singh has been invited to address the proposed rally.PTI adds: the president of the Uttar Pradesh unit of the Lok Dal (B), Mr Mulayam Singh Yadav, today demanded mid-term poll in the state because the Congress government had lost the peoples’ confidence.”Holding the ruling party responsible for the outbreak of violence in Meerut, Mr Yadav said internal bickerings of the ruling party led to riots in different parts of the country.FLEEING PEOPLE (PTI from Ghaziabad): People from Meerut aretaking shelter with their relatives inurban and rural areas of Ghaziabad, according to the police superintendent.The district magistrate said all necessary precautions have been taken for maintaining peace in the district.PAC forces have been deployed in the rural areas. Additional forces have been deployed at all the national highways. he said. -He denied rumours that some dead bodies were found floating in the Ghaziabad canal.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿16 LTTE rebels killed in clashesThe Times of India (J86J-current); Apr 2, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of Indiapg. 1316	LTTE rebels killed in clashesCOLOMBO, April I: At least 16 LTTE militants were killed in two separate clashes between the government forces and the militants in northern Sri Lanka during the weekend, officials here said, reports PTI.While seven militants were killed and 17 others wounded in a clearing operation at Kyts in northern JafTna in which two militant bunkers were destroyed, nine other militants were killed and four wounded in the outskirts of Palaly, four soldiers were wounded in the Kyts operation.The security forces today imposed an indefinite curfew on the northern Mannar and Vavuniya districts as 29 people including a policeman and seven civilians were killed in violence elsewhere in the war-torn north-east, officials said.Meanwhile, a top Sri Lankan team led by the foreign secretary, Mr Bernard Tilakaratnc, will leave here for New Delhi next week for high-level talks on bilateral relations, official sources said here today.Orissa riot toll rises to 19BHUBANESWAR, April 1 (PTI): With the recovery of two more decomposed bodies today and the death of one more person yesterday, the toll rose to 19 in communal violence at Bhadrak and Soro in Balasore dis-trict, according to official report.The two bodies were recovered from Soro taking the total number of bodies recovered to seven. A death was reported from Bhadrak where curfew ran into the ninth day today.Three incidents of arson were reported from the rural areas of Bhadrak while an attempted arson was also reported during the curfew relaxation period yesterday.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿One Killed in tense MalegaonA Staff ReporterThe Times of India (1861-current); Jun 29, 1983; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1By A Staff ReporterBOMBAY, June 28.ONE person was killed and tern were injured in three cases of police firing on riotous mobs in. Mnleomnn town tndav.Maharashtra’s director-general or police, Mr. K. P. Medhekar, toldl newsmen that the situation by the; evening was under control, thought tense.	.	, ,Seven companies of the state reserve police are camping in the town in Nasik district where the trouble er-rupted after some people burst crackers at a place of worship on Sunday night, to celebrate India’s World Cup victory.Mr. Medhekar told reporters that; among the police personnel injured were 19 med of the SRP, one of them seriously, two inspectors, one subinspector and one deputy superintendent. Two hundred and sixty-five people arrested. A DIG and a special. IGP Were camping in Malegaon, he; said.Curfew was. imposed in the town, from 12 noon today- till 6 a.m. tomorrow as •attempts were made to set fire to shops and a tractor. The police opened fire today to quell a mob which attempted to set fire to some shops. The name of the man killed was given	as	Sasad	AhmedAbdul Nawaz	(23).	(Yesterday, the police had opened fire to control §t mob which tried to besiege a police chowki. Two men Were injured.On Sunday night, after the Indian victory, a few; incidents of assults took place followed by arson the next morning. The fires were put out by the fire brigade.	'UNI adds:	,	,The police	also	said	that	tensionprevailed in Dhule district. following disfiguring of a Chhatrapati Sbivaji statue at Ner village yesterday.Heavy police bandobust had been maintained at all sensitive areas in the district, the police told .UNI here, adding that no untoward incident was reported from the area. A youth hadbeen arrested in this connection, tfc?yadded.	...............PTI adds from Nasik: Prohibitory orders, banning the assembly of five or more person and; carrying of lethal weapons were promulgated throughout the district today by the magistrate, Mr. Govind Swamp.	•The order will remain in force in Nasik till July .4, while in MalegaOh it will be effective till July 5.Mr. Swarup said the police fired .a total of 15 rounds in seven places today. The affected areas were Islanji-pura, Jafamagar, Golden Nagar, Ajamalkhan Chowk, Bajarang Wadi, Azad Nagar and Dutt Nagar.	yHe said Mr. Sukhdev Singh Puri, superintendent of • police, was mobbed in the Azad Nagar area by a violent crowd. He opened fire.	T.Soon after the night curfew. w#s lifted, at. 7 a,m. today, several inuj-dents of violence were reported from various parts of the town. The police made a lathi-charge to disperse & stone-throwing mob on the outskirts of the town. Several shops were looted. '	'	:	• fReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew clamped on KalyanA Staff ReporterThe Times of India (J86J-current); Aug 7, 1980; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Curfew clamped onBy- A Staff Reporter; BOMBAY, August 6: Kalyan town in Thane district came under curfew tonight, following violent clashed bitween two groups js&nofc last night.The collector ' Of Thane, Mr. Anti Gokak, Whjn is also the district magistrate, issued the ourfew orders last night following rioting, stdne-throwing and stabbing, according to information received here.	*’ ' y-r '	’ '	„	* '	' i , ’'	■	■It appears that two groups clashed last night overlSe parking of an autorickshaw arid this sparked sporadic incidents of violence. The police fired in the air .to disperse the mob. Some incidents of stabbing and stone-thro wing were also reported this afternoon, Mr, Gokak is in Kalyan.The duration of the curfew fe not yet lonoWn. ■ /	'  , • ’	'Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿5 burnt alive in M.P. clashesThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); May 18, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 15 burnt alive inM.P. clashesThe Timet of India Newt ServiceINDORE, May 17.FIVE persons of a family were burnt alive last night at Gogaon, 17 km from Khargone, in a communal riot following a clash between two youths. Their house was set on fire before they could escape.Curfew has been imposed there since 10.30 p.m. Twenty people, in* eluding five policemen, have been injured. The hooligans indulged ia widespread arson. Over US kiosks, shops and houses were damaged. Fire engines from Indore, Khargone,Bharwaha and Sanawad were sent to the spot.The police fired five rounds to quell the rioters, injuring one person who is reported to be out of danger.The unruly crowd also retaliated.Several persons sustained bullet injuries.	'Till dawn today, 100 arrests were made. Police patrolling has been stepped up.According to a state government press note, firearms have been confiscated. House-to-house searches were also continuing. Payment of ex-gratia relief of Rs 20,000 to thesurvivor of each of the dead and Rs $00 to each of the injured has been sanctioned by the government Two survey parties have been sent to assess the extent of the losses. The collector of Khargone, Mr S.S. Pan-dya, the 1GP, Mr Surjeet Singh, and the DIG of Indore range, Mr S.K.Das, are camping there.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿7-Paise Rise In Imported Grain CostThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 2, 1966; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1; QUELLED :	Rioting And Arson, “The limes of India” News Service•' - NAGPUR, October 1: The trouble,. which started at Mangrulpir and Wa-shim in the Akola district of Vidar-bha two days ago, J yesterday spread ; to Pusad in neighbouring- Yeotmal district. \ _■.	- V;' : • .. : /The;'Home. Minister, 'Mr.' D. S. De-k sal, told -newsmen 'here -today that t a few incidents of looting and arson > y^re . reported from Pusad yesterdaysixc-S:- '^^^;>b^^gfthev^tuatr6n''ini4«t'' control. irpmedmtely. • ‘	. :, ■ According^ to the latest reports 5' reaching him, the Minister: said, the l situation . at Mangrulpir - and >Washim l .was completely under control.: The * - curfew;, clamped down qn Washim ;. town initially for 12 hours had,, how-r ever, been* .extended . by24 . hours.Detonating Fuse IJnit: ‘ • HYDERABAD, October 1: A deto-.: .nadng fuse limit, the .firsts in. the country, was.; commissioned today '.!by,:' ; Indian Detonators Limited -at \Ku££t-. palli, 15 miles from here.	...:	The unit ' has been - set up with'. Yugoslav collaboration ,and 'has licensed' capacity for. the manufacture . of 20 million feet per annum.'J The company was. commissioned in ' 1965 for- the ; ^manufacture .of deto-■ : nators with Huhgarian collaboration. • . —U.N.I.,i PM’s Broadcast! NEW DELHI, October 1: The l Prime Minister will broadcast to the ■ nation at 9.30 p.m. tomorepw.—U.N.I,Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Tension continues in Mewat regionThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Feb 2, 1993; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of Indiapg. 10Tension continuesin Mewat regionThe Times of India News Service NUH (Mewal), February 1.TENSION continued in the Mewat area of Haryana after four Mco leaders belonging to the Congress were burnt to death in a Maruti van near Ujina village on Saturday. Thousands of mourners had gathered at Salaheri village, vowing not to bury the bodies until the authorities granted their demands.Additional forces were sent to the curfew-bound region and police parties have intensified patrolling. The district magistrate and senior superintendent of police were to visit the sensitive villages, but the authorities were reluctant to enter Salaheri.The bodies were brought to Salaheri after a post-mortem yesterday afternoon as thousands of mourners, including senior political leaders, filed into the village. The mourners held a biradri meeting to find out what had disturbed communal amity in this Muslim-majority area. There were a fairnumber of Hindu leaders among the mourners.The mourners first asked the head of the biradri panchayat, Mr Tayyab, and his political adversary, Mr Khurshid Ahmed, former Janata Dal MP, to sink their differences. After Mr Tayyab “pardoned” Mr Ahmed, the meeting demanded that the Meo ministers, Mr Shakurallah and Mr Mohammad Ilyas, and the Meo MLAs, Mr Zakir Hussain and Mr Azmat Khan, resign in protest against the government’s failure to protect Meos.Mr Zakir Hussain tendered his resignation immediately but on second thoughts the panchayat returned the letter to “avoid giving a political colour to the ghastly incident.”Around 5 p.m., a list of demands was sent through a spokesman to the senior district officials camping at Nuh. They demanded copies of the FIR of the incident and the post-mortem report, the arrest of Mr Suraj Pal, Ujina Sarpanch and allegedly the prime accused, house-to-house searches at Ujina and two nearby villages and the registration of an FIR regarding the burning of two shops in Nuh on Saturday.The administration’s assurance that the demands would be accepted did not satisfy the panchayat who deferred the burial. The bodies were placed on slabs of ice. Armed policemen gathered outside the village, but made no move to enter.Mr Azmat Khan, MLA, was the main target of the Ujina mob on Saturday. He told the panchayat that the four persons killed and Jwo injured — who are convalescing in a Delhi hospital — had told him two hours before the incident that the Ujina sarpanch had threatened to “settle scores” on Saturday. He said when the mob tried to set his car ablaze his driver managed to drive off injuring some people in the process.He said he could identify some of those responsible and was not satisfied with the police version that 55 youths from Ujina village had been held for interrogation.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿7 killed in Baroda on MoharramThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jul 24, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 17 killed inBarodaonMoharramThe Timet of India Newt ServiceBARODA, July 23; Seven persons were killed in police firing and stabbing and an indefinite curfew clamped on The entire walled city areas of Baroda in yet another bout of communal disturbances over the stoning of Tazia processions on the occasion of Moharram this evening.There is still no count of the number of rounds, fired by the police or the teargas shells burst as violence that erupted in the Man-dvi area soon spread to other areas engulfing the entire walled city.The police opened fire at Babamanpura, Mandvi, Fatehpura Dumdherwad and several other lanes and by-lanes in the walled city area that witnessed a free-for-all for some time despite the strong, police bandobust in view of moharram today. The stoning soon led to a stabbing spree with at least seven stabbing cases reported in the first couple of hours, including two fatal ones.While five persons were killed in police firing, two succumbed to stab injuries. Among the injured, ten persons sustained bullet injuries and five others injured in stabbing. There is still no report of any injury due to stoning.As the situation tended to go out of control, the police imposed an 1 indefinite Curfew at 3.45 P.M. in the entire area under the Vadi, city and Panigate police stations. The police claimed the situation was brought under control after the imposition of curfew. ',Life outside the curfew-bound (Continued on Page 13)Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.7 killed in Baroda on Moharram(Continued from Page 1)areas, however, was normal with people going out for shopping or to see a cinema and making social calls. The shops bordering the curfew-bound areas also remained open and normal business continued.THREE KILLED: Barring stray incidents of violence leading to three deaths, Moharram was observed with traditional solemnity all over Bihar, reports PT1 from Patna.One person was killed in police firing at village Chandanpatti in Hayaghat block of Darbhanga district today. The incident occurred when Tazia processionists from two villages clashed among themselves and later with the police and tried to snatch rifles following which the police opened fire killing one person on the spot.Two persons were killed ai Banaul village in Sitamarhi district yesterday in clashes between two communities. The situation in the village was reported to be tense bui under control.ARMY OUT IN PAKISTAN(UNI from New Delhi): The army has been called out to maintain law and order in a number of places in Pakistan’s Punjab and Sind following violent clashes between Shias and Sunnis on the cvc of Moharram according to Pakistani media reports.The Shia-Sunni tension which had been building up in Punjab, Sind and the Gilgit and Baltistan areas - of Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) since April last, triggered off Violent dashes between the members of the two communities at Jhang in Punjab on the evening of July 19 last.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Jogeshwari riots claim 6A Staff ReporterThe Times of India (1861-current); Jan 29, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1By A Staff ReporterBOMBAY, January 28.T^OUR people, including a X woman, died in police firing, two men succumbed to stab injuries and 43 others were injured in rioting and firing on mobs by the police at Jogeshwari, last night.Curfew was clamped at 10 D.m. yesterday and is to continue till 8 a.m. tomorrow,According to the police, a suspicious object, later identified as a low intensity crude bomb placed at Janata Colony, led to rumourmongering and rioting in the area.The additional commissioner, Mr Aftab Ahmed Khan, controlling operations in the riot-hit areas, said the first information on the bomb was received at 6.11 p.m. yesterday and 19 minutes later the first incident of rioting and stone-throwing was reported.While the worst confrontation between two community groups, numbering around 1,5.00 in all, wasin an open ground near Meghwadi, the most serious cases of arson were reported from the Shankarwadi area. According to Mr Khan, 25 establishments including shops and residential places, were damaged as a result of fires and stone-throwing. The roads leading to Meghwadi, Shankarwadi, Ramabai Chawl, Squatters Colony and Income-tax colony were seen littered with stones, bricks and glass pieces.In the subsequent rounding-up of rioters, the police arrested more than 50 people from the area and seized large stocks of tube-lights, choppers and fire-balls made of sticks and cloth dipped in kerosene.The police had to resort to firing at riotous mobs at least 20 times in various places. Tear-gas shells were lobbed at the mobs before firing was ordered. Mr Khan himself fired 31 rounds of tear-gas shells before firing.Of the 43 people injured, 12 sustained bullet injuries and 31 were injured as a result of stoning and fires. Of the 31 injured, 12 were policemen.The police suspect, from the littletime gap between the discovery of the bomb and rioting, that some antisocial elements from the area were prepared for a showdown and were only waiting to create trouble which opportunity they got when the bomb was found.According to police sources, intelligence from the special branch of the Bombay crime investigation department had given an ‘all peaceful’ report on the area only two days before the rioting broke out.The last time riots broke out in the same area, four people were killed. The trouble lasted for more than four days and curfew was clamped for most parts of the day repeatedly for almost a week after rioting was first reported on December 30.The special branch intelligence failed to come up with any help for the general police at the time and a report, although ready much later, pinpointed that criminal elements had started the riots. A local corporator was detained by the police as a preventive measure-at the time,Arrests of many people with previous crime records at the time (Continued on page 3)Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.The police swing into action to disperse a group of women protesting against the arrest of rioters at Jogeshwari.(Continued from Page 1)were made. However, they were all released by last Saturday, which, local residence claim could be the reason for the present riots.According to official sources, the slums in the area provide a good hiding place for criminals. The proximity to the highway and the anonymity provided by the slums has led to many external criminals taking shelter in the area alongwith pickpockets, bootleggers, pimps, drug addicts and drug runners which leads to gang clashes.Residents in the area complained af police harassment when some of Ihe people were not allowed to go to the public toilets or to buy essential :ommodities.Women from a relatively less affected area staged a sit-in at the Sarvodaya colony and later submitted a memorandum to the police and the chief minister requesting relaxation of curfew in the area. They alleged that woman had been harassed by the police and demanded an apology from the police officials present at the place.Some of the local residents alleged that the police had fired not at the legs of rioters but above their waist. To this, Mr Khan clarified that the police on many occasions had to fire upwards at terraces or high areas from where miscreants threw stones,bricks and fire-balls, which led to bullets hitting people above the waist.Women in the area were worst affected and looked shaken sometimes becoming violent at the mention of the incidents or breaking down into tears and saying nothing.One woman fainted when the police picked up her son from the house. The police had to leave the son alone.Many houses in the area had their roofs broken to pieces as bricks came hurtling down on them. People from both the communities were eager to display their damages to reporters, photograhers and Doordarshan cameramen as they went around the riot-hit areas. As usual, both communities had ample reasons and arguments against each other.One distressed woman, however, made a point when she said, “Innocent people pay for the mistakes of criminals.”Doctors from the area, according to residents, were very helpful, running around the whole night since yesterday attending to patients in spite of the violence.This afternoon, local MLAs and the BJP MP, Mr Ram Naik, met Mr Khan. They suggested that the police be more practical and human with the people in the curfew-bound areas. They also requested that names of victims should not be published to avoid friction and subsequent violence.Although bodies of the dead were sent to the coroners at J.J. Hospital and Cooper hospital, they were not made available to relatives as post mortem was pending. The post mortem is expected to be completed by this evening and a funeral with police protection is likely to be arranged tomorrow.The situation this evening was quiet with the police making house-to-house searches looking for wanted criminals and likely weapons. Rounding up of youths as preventive measures continued till late tonight.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿'Quota' rioting in GujaratThe Times oL India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Mar 19, 1985; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1The Times o£ India News ServiceAHMEDABAD, March 18.discussed and	sorted out at the	received burn injuries when a	lad-national level, he said.	der was set ablaze by some youths____________ The agitation committee leaders in the Gomtipur area in Ahmedabad,miir .	'	„„	.. - tonight claimed the bandh was sue- the police said. Three persons wereHE Gujarat Danan calieal cessfui throughout the state. , arrested in this connection, by the all Gujarat educa- When the bandh started,! munid- Reports of more incidents of arsonfirm	rpfnrm	rrvmmittee	whichi	Pal buses in	Ahmedabad were the	in various	parts	of the city	werenon	rerorm	committee	wmen	^ targets	of stone-throwing.	pouring in,	the	police said.	ApartIS now agitating tor the totail	Batches of students, some riding two-	from setting	afire	a nationalised	bankabolition of reservations, today	wheelers,	moved about forcing	shop-	branch in	Gomtipur, attempts weremvrtlrpH nartial rpcnnnco huh	keepers to down shutters. ; v	also made	to set ablaze banks inlnvOKeu partial re p e ^ L	BUSCS	were withdrawn from	many	the suburbs of Navrangapura andtriggered violent incidents ini	sensitive	areas. Autorickshaws	did	Naranpura.	An autorickshaw was setmany parts of the State.	brisk business for some time but as afjre jn the Gomtipur area.Incidents of arson and stone- <jay throwing wereadvanced, they too wereA Mehsana report said completereported from Sural:.	°ut’.	bus bandh; was observed in most of theAhmedabad and some other towhsi, P^^enge s a ^	^ mid-dav the towns °f tbc district. ST buses werethe main target of. the	^ road. However no untowardstudents being municipal buses and „ „.	,,	^ _	  _____ incident was	reported.public property.AP adds:In Surat, the police burst tear-, gas shells to disperse a crowd engaged in burning a government jeep,,	-	. ,	_Here in the city, teargas shells rounds were fired on rival groups ,jn Kutch district the bandh had were burst in the Gomtipur, Havel;i which attacked each other with stones n0 effect and life was normal. How-and Khadia areas to disperse stone-, and burning torches. One police ins- everi jn Bhuj students took outpector received burns when	an	acid	a procession	an<J a batch	of	tenbulb was hurled at	him.	students observed	token fast	in	res-Three fire-fighters	were	rushed	to	ponse to the	call,	the report added.P.T.I. adds: Tow persons were in- The bandh was total in Junagadb jured in police1 firing on clashing ancj Veraval towns, while in most of mobs in the Danapur area of the tjj€ rowns in the Saurashtra region,city tonight. .	the bandh call evoked partial res-According to the police, eightponse.throwing nwbs. More than 300 people: were taken into custody.The response to the bandh wa:; poor in Rajkot, Jamnagar and othci: towns in the Saurashtra region, anclput out the fire which engulfed theExcept for stray incidents of stone-“ibe home and education minister.	h some towns of the dis-Mr. Chatidbaiy, whose appeal for ‘net. Ihe bandh was observed peace-lukewarm in the Kutch area. School:; and colleges functioned normally in	was in the city and the district, aignored by the “Akhil Gujarat Nav- Bhavnagar report said,.°	I hA anfi-rACArvottnntcfcThough the state government on °	tv»* the The anti-reservationisfs got a shotonnonne.d ?te Hp-ic-rm u* rachna bamiti, _ claimed inax. uw .	___„„ ... ■— •Saturday announced its decision to withdraw the new reservation policybandh was partial in various parts » the arm as the Rane commissions report, vindicated their point.for one year, some of the' student	wic near total in Ah- The commission had recommend-bodies are continuing the stir, feeling ,,,	.	centre of rite ed that reservation should be linkedleft out by what they call the gov-	a UatioT Sch^oT colleges! with the economic condition of theernment’s “one-sided” decision. The six-week agitation. >cnoo ,	» *	ben°ficiarv	and not with	his	casteAkhil RWativa Vidvarthii shops and markets were	closed,	nen.nciary	ana not wun	ms	caste.Panshad (AWP1	tot toSl while the vehicular traffic was very It had suggested an mconie limitnfM^ aiitarion	thin, with the	municipal transport	of Rs.lQ(00apcr aMum	foi: ]Rant-The SvP today	issued a	stated	service running	only a	few buses	mg	this concession. ^ltie ™vf	koL u on “safe” routes	To assess social backwardness onSrand°naDp4l«i taSthe states However mills' and factories fane- the basis of castes, would, be totally no to be Sd by XJSX Honed normally .and some bank,	nnreal,st.e and unpatrtoric.	_tbeguided student leaders, and appear foe and government offices also worked,	comra.ss.on-s chairman,,	Mr.	G V.Seir examinations. .	though with marginal attendance. Rane, said in a forwarding letter toMr. Babubhai Patel, former chiesf Baroda was the only major city the chief minister,	. :minister who had initially support- where the bandh call evoked pool The government said it had ignored the agitation, also	appealed	to the	response. Even	schools	were open	ed .	this recommendation	because itstudents to return to their classes	in the city and	life was	normal.	was	outside the purview of the com-:The reservation policy could now be An SRP constable and a bystandei mission.	•Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Administration's MessThe Times of India (J86J-current); Sep 3, 1952; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 5Administration’s“Mess”| MR. EISENHOWER’S j ATTACKEN ROUTE WITH El HEN-MOWER. September 2: Mr. Eison-hnwor crtlleil the Truman Administration today a top to the bottom mess ’ rroRied by men who are too small for their joins, too big for their breeches and too long in power. He said the only cure was a wholesale clean-out of the political bosses in Washington.I.ashing out at the opposition for the first time in his campaign, the Republican presidential nominee opened a two-day Southern tour using such terms as incompetence, stupidity and corruption and peddlers of privilege and destroyers of decency” who are “careless with truth and the tax-payer’s money.He invited the South to break away from its traditional ties with the Democratic Party and join him in the November 4 election in a crusade to restore decency and honesty and integrity to the nation's capital.Mr. Eisenhower stated that he would not predict the outcome of the presidential election, but he promised whatever my future personal status I shall not rest until the peddlers of privilege and destroyers of decency are banished from the nation's house.—U.P.A.“U. S. PARTY OF REACTION” President’s ViewMILWAUKEE, September 2: President Truman yesterday denounced the Republicans as still the Party of special interests trying to pose as something different by hiding behind a new personality, that of Mr. Eisenhower.The President was speaking in an election campaign at a labour rally in Milwaukee calling for the defeat of Milwaukee’s Republican Senator Joseph McCarthy.The Republicans are still the errand boys of the big lobbies, still the ones who want to exploit labour and tjie farmer and the consumer,” he declared.The only thing different about them this year is that they are trying to hide behind a new face —their lonely, captive candidate.They have tried disguises before. They always try to put a new face on the elephant at election time. But the disguise never works because the rest of the elephant is too big to hide—and the rest of the elephant has the record of Republican reaction written all over him.”—P.T.I.-Reuter.Ping Pong Ball RaftMARSEILLES, September 2: Five young men and a girl manning a home-made raft, “Kentooki”, which floats on thousands of ping pong balls, were brought into La Ciotat, 15 miles east of here, yesterday by a coastguard vessel after French launches had pursued the craft following a night dash out to sea.Police had forbidden the clumsy, square-sailed raft to leave port, saying that it was a danger to shipping.—P.T.I.-Reuter.!	—i——| Moradabad ClashMORADABAD, September 2:One person was killed and several other were injured in a fracas among spectators witnessing a_ wrestling bout yesterday in a village near Mundhapande in Moradabad District.The clash followed resentment by ft, section of^ the spectators of referee's decision giving four minutes extra time.—P.T.I.	.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew after 2 killed in mob violenceThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 21, 1980; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1being taken out through the particular route and soon brickbatting started. Some people also fired at the procession. After a lathi-charge failed to disperse the mobs, the sub-divisional magistrate on duty asked' the police to open fire. The police fired 16 rounds in the air.The home secretary, Mr S. D. Shrl-vastava, told newsmen here this evening that an indefinite curfew had been imposed in the village and the situation there was fully under control.Men o.f the i:police and the Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) were patrolling Malipur and there had been no reports of any repercussions from anywhere in the state, he said.Mr Shrivastava said 31 persons had been injured in brickbatting and violent clashes in which lathis and spears were also used. The injured included five policemen.Seven persons had been hospitalised and two of them, including the aged gram pradhan. succumbed to their injuries in the hospital.Most of the injured had lathi or spear wounds and two had pellet injuries. The deceased, however, had no bullet injuries, the home secretary said.Mr Shrivastava said 34 persons had been arrested in connection with the Malipur incidents. According to him, the trouble erupted around 4.30 in the afternoon when a Dusshera procession was half way through its route. People, belonging to one community, objected to the processionLUCKNOW, October 20 (UNI).nptROOPS were deployed in Saharan-.1 pur town this morning as a precautionary measure following incidents of mob violenec and firing in the nearby Malipur village.two persons, including me gram pradhan of the village, were killed in the violence.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿U. S. Tanker Split In AtlanticThe Times of India (J86J-current); Dec 23, 1960; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 14U. S. Tanker Split In AtlanticMASSIVE RESCUE EFFORTNEW YORK, December 21; An American tanker with a crew of nearly 40 broke in two in mountainous seas in “the graveyard of the Atlantic”' today.An aircraft-carrier and other vessels raced to the scene off Cape Hat-teras, on America’s Atlantic coast, to pick up men seen in the water or clinging to the still-floating stern section.The tanker, the 523-foot Pine Ridge, was bound for Texas from New York in ballast when she broke apart. The fore section capsized.The. 10,945-ton Artcmus, which saw the tanker split in two, radioed for help and a massive rescue effort was soon under way.TREACHEROUS WINDSBut the Artemis reported later that it was “impossible to render any assistance under the present weather conditions.”The Coast Guard said that 37 men were aboard the pine ridge, but her agents gave the number as 39.The area where the tanker was stricken is known to merchant seamen as “the graveyard of the Atlantic.”Treacherous winds and tides have taken countless lives there.BOAT CAPSIZES IN N.-E. BRAZIL 30 People DrownedRIO DE JANEIRO, December 21: Nq fewer than 30 people were drowned today when a ferry boat carrying a bus across a river capsized in north-east Brazil today.The accident occurred between Porto Das Pandras and Recife, in Pernambuco Province.	•The death-roll was expected to increase as salvage work went on.— Reuter.NAGA LEADER’S HOUSE FIRED ON Mokokchung IncidentMOKOKCHUNG, December 22: Underground armed Nagas fired on the residence here of Dr. Imkongliba Ao, President of the Naga People’s Convention, on Sunday night.Dr. Ao, who yesterday met foreign and Indian correspondents on their way to Jorhat from Tuensang to bid them farewell at the conclusion of their week-long tour of the Naga area, said that the bullets made some holes in the walls and the damage was slight.—P.T.I.Jorhat:	The presence of under-ground armed Nagas at the 12th mile from Tuensang town held up for over 90 minutes the journey of the foreign and Indian correspondents who left Tuensang on Wednesday morning for Jorhat on the conclusion of their week-long tour of the Naga area.As the convoy carrying the correspondents reached the tenth mile from Tuensang, the security forces’ outpost there stopped the convoy with the information that a band of armed hostile^ had been sighted two miles away and were being engaged.The patrols charged the hostiles into the jungles and fired a few shots.After it Was ascertained that they had been cleared, the convoy left.— P.T.I.	,•	,1 KILLED AND 3 BURNT ALIVE Election ClashBUDAUN, December 22: One person was lulled on the spot, three, including a father and soil were burnt alive in a heap of cow dung, on Thursday last, in a fight between two groups of canvassers of the forthcoming panchayat elections in the village of Sirsa, 70 miles from here, according to a report received here.Country-made fire arms and lethal weapons were freely used, ,in the fight, the report said. The police reached the spot and restored order.Seven of the injured are lying in the Gunnaur hospital. The police extricated charred bodies from the burning heap of cow dung.—P.T.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Blasts rock GujaratThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jun 23, 1985; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew clamped on MeerutThe Times of India (J86J-current); Apr 17, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Curfew clampedonMeerutMEERUT (Uttar Pradesh), April 16(UNI): Curfew was clamped on the old district of this city today following violence which left seven people killed and several injured,All the education institutions have been closed till April 19 and the famous Nauchandi Mela (fair) has been disbanded the district magistrate, MrRadhey Shyam Kaushik said.Earlier, the fait was postponed' for five days till April 19.	*	,Three cases of stabbing and half a dozen incidents of stoning were reported today.	!The fresh violence has broken put barely 36 hours after communal clashes here over shab-e-barat cel-ebrations.in which six people died and more than 40 were injured.Of the 16 injured admitted to various hospitals in the city, the condition of three is stated to be serious.• The district magistrate said 108 people have been arrested so far for their alleged involvement in the dashes.Immediately after the word of fresh violence spread in the city, shop-ekeepers downed ’ their shutters and' cinema houses were closed.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Protest Against Police Firing: JAIPUR STUDENTS LATHI-CHARGEDOur Own CorrespondentThe Times of India (1861-current); Jan 31, 1952; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 7Protest Against Police FiringJAIPUR STUDENTS LATHI-CHARGEDFrom Our Own CorrespondentJAIPUR, January 80: The police had to resort to lathi charfa t< disperse a procession of student! taken out here this afternoon ir defiance of Sec. 144, Cr., P. C imposed on Monday. The studenti demanded the removal of tht D.I.G. responsible for police firing on that day which resulted in the death of three persons including a student, and injuries to seven.Many students abstained today from attending their classes and took out the procession which was stopped by the police on Chowra Rasta. They threw stones at the police whereupon the police resorted to lathi charge.Two of the nine persons Injured, as a result of the police firing on Monday afternoon near the Tripo-lia Bazar, have died. The condition of the remaining is stated to be satisfactory.The State Government has issued the following press communique: “The Government regrets to announce the death of two persons and injuries to seven as a result of firing which the police were compelled to resort to on an unruly mob in Jaipur City on the evening of January 28.REVIEW OF INCIDENTS“Earlier in the day, some students attempted to force a hartal in the city to mourn the death of the late Maharaja of Jodhpur. Some fruit vendors refused to close their shops as their goods were perishable. Thereupon, the students looted the shops. Some sporadic incidents of hooliganism, which were taking a communal turn, also occurred in certain localities in the city. In order to prevent further deterioration in the situation, the City Magistrate promulgated an order under Section 144 Criminal Procedure Code. Thereafter, in de* fiance of the order certain persons took out a procession. The police stopped the processionists and tried their best to persuade them from marching further. However, the mob became violent and attacked the police with big stones. One Assistant Superintendent of Police and 40 policemen received injuries. After adequate warning, and, as a last resort, the police were compelled to open fire as a result of which the mob dispersed. Minimum force was used and the nine persons injured were promptly rushed 16 hospital. <jf the nine injured, two who were seriously wounded subsequently succumbed to their injuries in hospital.“A section of the. mob, who sought refuge in aide lanes, reassembled on the main road and again adopted a violent attitude. They were, however, dispersed by the police. The tension continues, but the situation is under control. The police are patrolling the city. The Government hopes that the public will help the authorities in | their efforts to restore order.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Probe ordered into Varanasi riotsThe Times of India (1861-current); Nov 23, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 7Probe ordered intoVaranasi riotsNEW DELHI, Nov, 22 (UNI).THE Uttar Pradesh government has ordered a judicial inquiry into the recent communal riots in Varanasi, the Union minister of state from home, Mr M.M. Jacob, informed Parliament today.fn a suo mow statement, the minister gave details of the incidents which began when idols of goddess Kali were being taken in a procession for immersion in the Ganga.He said, he had conveyed to the Uttar Pradesh chief minister the feelings of members on the role of the district administration in curbing the riots and sought information from him on points raised in the house.The minister said in all 17 people were killed and 26 injured in the riots that took place between November 8 and 13. The Centre had provided all necessary help to the state. Five additional companies of the CRPF had been provided on November 15.He said the state government had said the situation was now under control and that curfew was being gradually relaxed.The minister said clashes between the two communities broke out following an accidental injury to a person of another community from fire crackers let off during the procession.Anti-social elements had taken advantage of the resentment generated by this incident to start looting and arson. Rumour-mongcring led to incidents of brick-batting and stabbing. Some people coming out of a cinema hall also fell prey to this violence.These clashes resulted in the death of 8 people, four died on the spot and four succumbed to their injuries later in the hospital.Senior officers reached the spot on receiving information of the disturbances and brought the situation under control. Curfew wasimposed in the areas of eight police stations as a precautionary measure.The curfew was gradually relaxed from November 11. However, violence erupted again on November 13, when some people attacked the passengers of a tempo in Madanpura locality with knives and scissors. One woman was killed and four people were injured.In Mohalla Janganbadi, a crowd belonging to one community collected and started shouting provocative slogans. In Mohalla Sunarpura and Revdi Talab, four incidents of stabbing took place.During these fresh incidents, 7 people were killed and eleven injured. Thereafter the process of arrests and searches was intensified.According to the state government, curfew was tightened and police also undertook house-to-house searches to unearth illicit arms, ammunition and explosives. The police had so far arrested 617 people.In all, 17 people lost their lives and 26 received injuries during this period. Of the persons killed, one person, who was in police custody died in hospital.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Orissa riots spread; toll 15Mishra, Law Kumar;The Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Apr 1, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 1Orissa riots spread; toll 15By LAW KUMAR MISHRA The Times of India News Service HHAUKAK (Onssa), March 31: While lhe situation in Bhadrak and Soro towns continues to be bad, communal tension today engulfed some fresh areas in the district.the police ciaimea to nave recovered three bodies from Meghmadhab and Champua villages on the Bhadrak-Soro road. The bodies were found floating in a village tank, they added.The toll in the Bhadrak riots has gone up to 15 with the recovery of three njore bodies and the death of one’‘more riot victim.Thk recovery of the three bodies has heightened tension in Balasore district. Police patrolling has been intensified in Soro and Bhadrak and the neighbouring villages as well.Theauthorities admit the situation is still tense but under control. Riots started in Bhadrak last Sunday during the Ram Navami procession. However, no fresh incident of arson was reported today.Prohibitory orders continue at Soro, while Bhadrak has been under curfew for the last one week. Curfew was relaxed for three hours from 10 a.m. to I p.m. The home secretary, Mr Sahdev Sahood, said the(Continued on Page 3)Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.(Continued from Page 1)authorities were keeping a constant watch on the situation and if then was any improvement more relaxation may be granied. The chief minister has asked the state civil suppliei corporation to open ten more retail outlets for essential commodities at Bhadrak.House-to-house searches continue in Soro. In Bhadrak and Soro all men were detained in phases and broughi: to the police stations for interrog ation. Innocent men were allowed tc return. About 50 men have beer arrested on substantive charges, the police said here. From some houser all men have fled to escape police action.The authorities claimed grand success in the drive to find stolen and looted items. From one of the houses the police recovered Rs 2.5-lakkhs in cash. The cash was looted from the shop of a leading trader at Chandan Bazaar, the worst-affected area in Bhadrak. From another house the police recovered a locked iron chest. It was stolen from the pedhi (firm) of another trader. The police are trying to locate the owner.The items which have been recovered include garments, shoes and even sortie tins of biscuits, all items were looted as soon as the riots broke out and people deserted their shops in panic. The police said they are concentrating on the combing operations to flush out rioters and unearth the looted goods.Meanwhile, the authorities are likely to prevent the BJP leader, Mr Alai Behari Vajpayee, from entering the town tomorrow. The authorities said there was a feeling that the RSS and the BJP were behind the riots and Mr Vajpayee’s presence in the town may aggravate the situation.Regarding the Rqjasthan chief minister, Mr Bhairon Singh Shekhawat, a senior official said, “The decision should be taken at thehighest level. He should talk to his counterpart at Bhubaneswar if he is coming as the chief minister of another state. Mr Vajpayee and Mr Spekhawat are likely to reach Orissa eariy tomorrow morning and after a brief stay at Bhubaneswar they will proceed to Bhadrak.Meanwhile, a 100-member peace committee comprising people from different sections of society has been formed by the Balssore district collector under his chairmanship. The committee will take out a “shanti padyatra in Bhadrak and Soro.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Hapur DisturbancesThe Times of India (J86J-current); Oct 7, 1961; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 7Hapur Disturbances“The Times of India” News Service HAPUR, October 6: Armed policemen stood guard at strategic points in this town where the situation continued to be tense today. All markets remained closed. A few cases of arson were reported.Several persons are understood to have been taken into custody. Meetings, processions and demonstrations have been banned.P.T.I. adds: Some persons were injured and about six shops were burnt down in the disturbances in Hapur today.Chandausi is CalmMORADABAD, October 6: Chandausi which was the scene of a communal disturbance on Wednesday,_ remained peaceful and no further incidents were reported today.After a few hours’ relaxation yesterday curfew was extended till today, and police vigilance continues.About ten “bad characters” were rounded up by the police.;The Chief Minister, Mr. C. B. Gupta, is expected in Chandausi this evening.CHINESE BUILD NEW ROAD Western TibetNANDPRAYAG, October 6: TheChinese are busy constructing a motor road from Tholing Math to Gartok, capital of western Tibet, according to reliable reports received here.Tholing Math, the most famous monastery in western Tibet, is reported to have been converted into a military camp by the Chinese. The place is said lo have also been connected by a motor road with Gunsa.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿ORGANISED FORCE BEHIND RIOTS: GUPTA'S STATEMENTThe Times of India (J86J-current); Oct 9, 1961; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 5ORGANISED FORCEBehind riotsGupta’s StatementContinued from I’nge 1 Column 3 |Dchra Dun. The situation in these districts was under control.Mr. Charan Singh. Home Ministei. today attributed the communal disturbances in the western districts of the State, to an ‘‘organised attempt by some politicaPparties. He told newsmen that certain communal orgunisa-ions were exploiting the “unfortunate situation for political ends.Mr. Singh said that an attempt to disrupt communal harmony was being made with an eye on the general election. The Government was studying means of putting down communal elements with a strong hand. Law and order would be maintained at all costs.The Minister said the police lorce in the State was not sufficient to deal with such an unprecedented situation. Asked to sum up the situation, he said it was “not satisfactory so far.” He. however, added that life | was returning to normalcy in some riot-aifected towns.Mu/uffarnagar: Educational institutions here have been closed till October 22 and inmates of hostels asked to leave the city. Most of them have already left for their homes.The dusk-to-down curfew and t (he restrictions imposed under See. 144,Cr. P.C.. continue. No untoward incident was reported today.Saltaranpur:	Ninety persons wererounded up ‘today in this district. This brings the number of arrests to 130.The main Ratnlila procession was taken out in the eveningP.T.I. adds:Aligarh: Improvement in the situation at Aligarh was maintained today and no incident was reported during the past 24 hours. The curfew was extended by 12 hours up to 6 a.m. tomorrow morning after a short break during the day.Seven persons were arrested by the police today in connection with two stabbing Incidents in the city yesterday The victims are reported to be progressing.Moradabud: Seventeen more persons were rounded up in Moradabad district yesterday, bringing the total number of arrests so far to 170, including 75 at Chandausi, 60 at Moradabad,20 at Sambhal and 12 at Amroha, according to Mr. S. V. S. Juneja,District Magistrate.—P.T.I.Lucknow: The Chief Minister, Mr.C. B. Gupta, said here today that there was an organised force behind the rio' in the western districts of UP	.Mr. Gupta, who returned here today from. a tour of the riot-affected districts, said in an interview that the Government was determined to crush the riots and had taken positive steps in that direction.—l.N.S.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Karnataka riots claim 19 livesThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 5, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1The Times of India News ServiceBANGALORE, October 4.INDEFINITE curfew has been imposed on Kolar and oh Channapatna, 70 km. from here till October 6, after communal violence that broke out yesterday claimed 16 lives.(According to PTI, the toll mounted to 19.)Fourteen bodies were recovered during police searches of the nearly 80 houses and shops razed last night in Channapatna and the surrounding hamlets, but only eight were so far indentified. Of the victims, it had been charred to death and the'others stabbed. A victim of a knife attack died here in hospital this morning.Forty-eight persons were injured in yesterday’s communal clashes sparked off when a girl who came to meet her brothers after an examination at a Channapatna college, was teased by boys of another community. The injury toll is likely to rise because till this evening, many whohad been hurt in the riots, were still emerging from their houses in the curfew bound town, begging patrolling policemen for medical assistance.The police clarified that no one died in police firing though officers battling mobs last night fired several rounds in the air and some at the rioters. In Kolar, SO km from here, one person was stabbed to death in the p.c. extension, taking the toll in arson and rioting there to two. Only one person died yesterday, not two asThe Times of India Owing to circumstances beyond our control, some readers may not receive their copies of the newspaper. We request them to bear with us. — Editor.initial reports said.Arsonists took to the streets of Kolar again today damaging a place of worship, a car and setting a bakery afire, according to state police headquarters here. The situation in neighbouring Narasapura, Vengal and Mulbagal towns was also reported to be tense. Prohibitory orders under section 144 of the Cr.P.C. wereclamped on over a 13-km radius of Mulbagal town. The body of the 20-year-old college student who was, stabbed to death in Kolar yesterday was cremated under tight security, the police said.Meanwhile, in Channapatna town, the police refused to allow funeral procession and local officers today evening had been ordered to resort families one at a time in a truck provided by the police.1 KITTED IN GUJARAT: One person was killed and another suffered knife wounds when some miscreants went on a stabbing spree during curfew relaxation penod this morning in Palanpur town of Banaskantha district leading to reimposition of curfew there at 9.30 a.m. the police said, reports PTI from Ahmedabad.In Deesa town of the district anti-reservationists set fire to a state transport bus, police said.Indefinite curfew continued for the second day today in Vjjapur town of Mehsana district, where the body of a person, slain yesterday when police opened fire to disperse stone-throwing groups, was taken for the last rites, the police said.	,In Baroda, the police burst teargas(Continued on page 7)Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.Karnataka riotsContinued from Page 1shells to disperse a stone-throwing mob in the city areas. Late last night five bombs exploded behind Madar* market in curfew bound Panigate* area of the city. No casualties were^ reported, the police said.	*Meanwhile, indefinite curfew was  relaxed for women and children for five houn from 9 a.m. in the city police station area and for three hour* from 2 p.m. in Wadi and Panigate police station area, the police added.TOINS adds from Gandhinagar. The state government has banned all religious processions and public meetings in all the communally sensitive villages and other areas.The orders to this effect have already been issued to the district collectors and the district police chiefs by the chief minister, Mr Chimanbhai Patel.ARMY ALERTED'(UNI from Jaipur): The army staged a flag march in the curfew-bound Udaipur city this afternoon as incidents of arson, looting and stone throwing continued throughout the city last night, official sources said.	_The police resorted to lathicharge several times to disperse the violent mob which ransacked several shops, set ablaze about IS shops, a scooter and a tempo last night More than 18 people, including 13 policemen, were injured in the incidentLucknow: The Uttar Pradesh chief minister, Mr Mulayam Singh Yadav, today announced a judicial inquiry into the recent riots at Karnailganj in Gonda, which claimed 37 lives.Mr Yadav who air-dashed to Karnailganj this afternoon also ordered the transfer of the district police chief, Mr Rajnikant Mishra.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Indore quiet; toll rises to 30The Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 16, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1mM) i«wi lliVlIndore quiet; toll rises to 30The Times of India News Service	j KILLED IN CLASHINDORE, October. 15.	(Ahmedabad): One person was killed-r lc.c _____.	,	.	. and some others, including fouiT 1FE remained completely policemen, were injured in group■	I , ,	,	•	, * puiiwiiiviq nwv . injuiwu ini_rparalyscd in the commercial /clashes, which forced the authorities capital of Madhya Pradesh a day to clamp infinite curfew in Sidhpui after the worst-ever communal town of Mchsana district this eve-riots broke out here, claiming ning.	,more than 30 lives.	The police fired a round in the air,Officially the toll was put at 21. burst tear-gas shells and made a lathi-Even after curfew was clamped yes- charge to disperse two clashing : lerday, violence continued today, groups, when a religious procession though on a much smaller scale. was being taken out in the town, the Some of the injured in yesterday’s police said, incidents arc still in hospital and .more victims arc being admitted. By	JAIPUR SITUATION NOR-thc evening, 15 of the dead had been MAL (Jaipur): The indefinite curfew, identified at the hospital, and another clamped in some areas outside the eight persons were admitted with walled city of Jaipur on October 6 ; serious injuries.	following the outbreak of communalAfter the initial over-confidence in violence, was completely lifted today, which the administration allowed the	However, prohibitory	orders- procession, it is now busy under- under section 144 of the Cr.P.C. playing the casualties.	would remain in force in the entireA tour of the riot-aiTcctcd areas city as well as the whole district, Jduring the day showed that though official sources said.■the people remained indoors, by theevening some of them ventured out. BAN ORDERS IN NAGPUfi There was arson and some stab- (Nagpur): The police commissionci bing incidents today in which over a today rcimposed prohibitory order: dozen people were injured.	in east Nagpur which witnessedThe collector, Mr Bhagirath clashes for the last two days, accord-a Prasad, said that police patrolling had ingtoUNI. _ t been intensified. The police arc The orders issued under section r rounding up the miscreants and a 144 of the Cr.P.C. banning assembly I drive has been launched to unearth of five or morc Persons- would con-arms. So far, about 300 persons have llU('4,11 October 22, according to an r been arrested.	official statement,r	The situation in the area was stateda Meanwhile, the slate government to be peaceful, but tense. There was-	has cancelled the week-long Pan- a report ofa group clash this evening » chmarhi festival that was 16 begin but the police control room gave nofrom today. ■	details of it.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿8 stabbed to death in GujaratThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Nov 3, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1The Times of India News Sendee AHMEDABAD, November 2.AT least 12 people were killed in police firing and stabbing and 18 injured as arson, looting and rioting continued in the statetndav.The toll in Gujarat has risen to S3. The state government has requisitioned six central reserve police force (CRPF) companies for maintaining law and order in Ahmedabad alone.At Kadadra village near Godhra town, eight people belonging to two families were proceeding to another village. They were chased by a 100-strong mob. As they took shelter in a house, the mob set it on fire. Following the fire, the eight people ran out of the house only to be stabbed to death. Later, their bodies were burntFollowing the gory incident panic prevailed in the enure Godhra town and its surrounding areas. Thousands of people came out on to the roads, raising slogans and protesting against the incident.	.Even as the bodies of the victims were being taken by the police to their relatives, they were attacked by a mob near Limkheda. The Policenred two rounds and burst six tear-gas shells to disperse the mob. /In Ahmedabad, two women were stabbed to death when curfew was relaxed in the Gomtipur area, forcing the authorities to reimpose curfew.. One person was killed and another injured in police/firing in the Bapunagar areas this evening. Six people received bums when a house was set on fireat Parikshitnagar in(Continued on Page 3)Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.8	stabbed to death in Gujarat(Continued from Page 1) the Behrampuro area early today.One person was stabbed to death late last night at Sadra village in Baroda district The army has been' deployed in die Wadi and Panigatej areas iii Baroda.	'Ankleshwar town in Broach district was placed' under indefinite curfew following group clashes ' The state government has chalked out stern steps for containing violence. As many as 7,000, people have been arrested from various riot-hit towns and 1,100 of them have been' detained under the Terrorist and1 Disruptive Activities (prevention) Act (TADA).Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Tension in JaipurThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jun 15, 1969; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Tension in Jaipur‘‘The Times of India” News ServiceJAIPUR, June 14: Strong police and R. A. C. pickets have been posted at all strategic points in the city, in view, of the tension following the death of a 13-ycar-old hoy belonging to a minority community in a truck accident yesterday. .	.	.The truck driver, it is alleged, was dragged out of the vehicle and assaulted by an infuriated mob. Some policemen. who went to the spot later, were also allegedly assaulted.The driver, whose condition was reported to be serious when he was taken to hospital yesterday, is said to be better now.Truck operators took out a procession today, demanding stem action against those persons who allegedly assaulted the driver.	...	.Almost all shopkeepers inside the walled city closed their shops as tension mounted yesterday. In the evening, some shops were opened as steel-helmeted policemen patrolled the city.The acting President, Mr. V. V. Giri, has contributed Rs. 5,000 for cyclone relief in Andhra Pradesh.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Five dead in fresh riots in HyderabadThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 18, 1983; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1HYDERABAD. Seotember 17(PTI),pIVE persons died and four others were wounded in fresh communal violence which broke out in parts of the old city last night.While one person was stabbe< to death last night, four other Cleanin' today’s stabbings, the com missioner of city police Mr K Vijayarama Rao/ told newsmel here this evening.He said the incidents occurred ii—---------- .three places of Moghalpura police station limits and the police was able to contain the situation by about 1400 hours. Nineteen persons were arrested in connection with the incidents., The four who were injured in the incidents, were admitted to Osmania General Hospital. Two of them are in a serious condition.Mr. Rao said today’s incidents, a sequel- to a fatal stabbing incident last night at Nagalchinta locality, occurred in narrow by-lanes of the area where the police was not present.The commissioner described the situation in the affected areas as tense but peaceful.He said BSF, CRPF and armed police were deployed in the affected and sensitive areas and patrolling intensified. Localities under-18 police station limits were identified as communally sensitive areas, he added.The commissioner said about 9000 policemen and 75 vehicles were pressed into service to ensure peace and order during the two festivals Bakri-Id and Ganesh immersion.Eleven people were killed and about 95 injured in; police firing and stabbing and rioting incidents last week.EX-GRATIA ANNOUNCEDThe chief minister, Mr. N. T. Rama Rao. announced that the state government had decided to ‘pay an ex-gratia of Rs. 5000 each to the next c! kin of the deceased.He urged the people to help the government in maintaining peace and curbing the activities of anti-social elements.Aligarh:	Police would be with-drawn from the campus of the Aligarh Muslim University as, soon the situation created by hunger strike by a batch of ten students became normal, the vice-chancellor Mr. K. M. Bahaud. dm, said here today.Mr. Bahauddin said 14,000 students were taking the examinations of the university indicating that the striked did not have their support.He said both the president and the secretary of the students union had been rusticatedf4be university and tney were living in the hostel uhauthorisedly. v J ^Sooner they left the better. Other. wise,, he said, steps would be taken to have them evicted. Criminals and musclemen living in the hostel toere also asked to quit.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Army alerted: clash before Durga immersionThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 21, 1969; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Army alerted: clash before Durga immersion“The Times of India” News Service CALCUTTA, October 20.QEVERAL cases of stabbing and LJ arson were reported from the industrial area of Jagaddal in 24-Parganas district following a clash over an immersion procession this afternoon.. The State Government has alerted the Army-and 'despatched - police tein-forccmenls, including a contingent of the Hasicrn Frontier Rides to the area. ■	■	.	'According to. Mr. Hare Krishna Konar, Land and Land Revenue Minister, who is looking after the Home Department in the absence of Mr. JyOti 13asu, an immersion procession with the image of Durga clashed witha po'ice party in the vicinity of a mosque. Immediately ' after the clash, several people were slabbed and some huts set on fire in the area.	.Mr. Konar said at night that the s'tuatroii was under. control bui tension was continuing.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Stabbing reported in AurangabadThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jun 9, 1992; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 3Stabbing reportedin AurangabadThe Times of India News ServiceAURANGABAD, June 8: The situation in Aurangabad was generally peaceful today though some cases of stabbing and looting have been reported. The district superintendents of police of Os-manabad, Mr Subodh Kumar Jaiswal, who ably handled the communal situation earlier, rushed to Aurangabad immediately to help the assistant commissioner of police, Mr Dalbir Singh.The beating of the car driver of the Shiv Sena MLA, Mr Chan-drakant Khaire, sparked the stabbing incidents.Highly-placed sources state that the Shiv Sena is fomenting communal disturbances in an attempt to re-establish its image.Many shops pulled down shutters after the trouble started and a cloth shop and a bangle shop were looted. Some cases of stabbings were reported last night. Two persons were seriously injured following an attack by eight youths.Disguised Sikh ultras in NandedNANDED, June 8 (PTI): Punjab militants, in the guise of kar sewaks, have infiltrated into the Sikh pilgrimage town of Nanded, according to the Maharashtra director-general of police, Mr Vasant Saraf.Assistance would be sought from the Punjab police to check ultras’ activities in Maharashtra, Mr Saraf said, adding that an album, containing photographs of militants belonging to 150 groups in Punjab, would be prepared to indentify the kar sewaks.Talking to newsmen yesterday, at Kinwat, near here, after giving away prizes to policemen, who shot dead the self-styled Naxal chief, Vijay Kumar, on May 18 last in the district, Mr Saraf said a proposal to open a DIG’s office at Nanded and supply of modern arms to policemen had been submitted to the state government.The director general cautioned police personnel to be doubly alert in view of Naxalites, belonging to the People's War Group, also being active in the district.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Two more die in Baroda riotsThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jul 3, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1The Times of India News ServiceBARODA, July 2./TWO more persons were . 1 stabbed to death during the two-hour curfew relaxation here this morning as rioting continued raising the toll in the week’s violence in the city to seven.Three people were stabbed at Wadi, the area accounting for most instances of communal violence in the city in recent years. One of them died in a hospital soon afterwards.Two people were attacked with sharp weapons, one of them fatally, at Gotri village on the city outskirts early ' today. Gotri was outside the curfew-bound areas.The authorities decided against retaxing curfew in the evening in all localities under the Nehruwadi and city police stations. Curfew was imposed on two-thirds of the city.However, the day passed off peacefully in areas under the Raopura and Karelibaug police stations, where the ■ curfew relaxation was for 10 hours.The deputy mayor and BJP leader, Mr Nalin Bhatt, and five others, who were arrested yesterday in connection with violence, were produced before the chief judicial magistrate today. They were detained under the provisions of the Anti-Terrorist Act and those in the Indian Penal Code dealing with arson, assault and so on. The magistrate scheduled the next hearing for July 7.The six people remanded to judicial custody included Mr Hiralal Barot, head constable of Wadi police station.1 PT1 adds: The chief minister. Mi Amarsinh Chaudhary, who was scheduled to visit Baroda today, cancelled 1 his visit at the last minute.1 In a telegram to the Prime.Minister, the city mayor, Mr Jashpal Singh, has • demanded immediate action against 1 Mr Chaiidhary’s government for its ' “failure” to curb the violence.'The Akhil Navgujarat Rachna Samiti leaders, in a statement, criticised the arrests and the government for its failure in checking violence.Rajkot (UNI): Tension prevailed in Sultanpur and surrounding villages of Gondal taluka in this district where four people were shot down by a rival group yesterday.According to the latest police reports, all the assailants, numbering about 15, were untraceable.Some of the village elders were going to Rajkot to lodge a police complaint when their vehicle was intercepted by a truck carrying the assailants.The assailants fired at the jeep instantly killing four people.On hearing about the incident, a group of villagers assembled and tried to attack the houses of the accused. However, a police party present at the spot fired a few rounds in the air and dispersed the group.RATHYATRA PEACEFUL(TOINS from Lucknow): The rathyatra* was taken out peacefully in Meerut today. Nearly 50,000 people participated in the procession through, a regulated route which was finalised in consultation with citizens of the Hindu and Muslim communities.Adequate police bandohast was made to ensure peace at all cost and nothing untoward was reported, according to official reports here.While the rathyatra was peaceful, there was violence elsewhere inMeerut. With the death of one person, who succumbed to a head injury caused by a blunt weapon in the Transport Nagar police area, the toll in the renewed violence yesterday rose to three. Another person sustained stab injuries at Mohanpur,Curfew in large areas affected by riots in May continues during the night hours.	.	.The army staged a flag march in some parts of the city in view of the tension.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿CURFEW IMPOSED IN JABALPUR: RIOTS AND ARSON IN CITY FOLLOW ALLEGED RAPEThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Feb 5, 1961; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1CURFEW IMPOSED IN JABALPURRiots And Arson In City Follow Alleged Rape“The Times of India” News ServiceJABALPUR, February 4.£|URFEW has been clamped down on Jabalpur and the assembly ofmore than four persons, processions and meetings have been bannedin the.city which was racked by disturbances this morning.Rioters looted and set fire to shops in Andherdeo, Ja-waharganj, Omti and Kotwali Bazar. Unofficial reports said that one person was killed in Omti ward. Police reinforcements have been brought here from nearby towns and cities, and Army units have been called out to patrol the affected areas.The disturbances followed men and parades held by angry against some persons alleged to lege girl who committed suicide Two young men have been arrested so far by the police in connection with the alleged rape of the college girl, Miss Usha Bhargava.Groups of resentful persons held sporadic demonstrations early today. Stones were thrown at two high schools. Some students demonstrated in front of the house of a prominent bidi industrialist in Hanumantal Ward.Despite the precautionary measures taken by the authorities this morning, rioting spread and more than ten cases of arson were reported from different localities.The Chief Minister, Dr. K. N.Katju, has been informed of the tense situation in Jabalpur. The District Collectors, the Superintendent of Police and the City Magistrate toured the disturbed areas in the city.Girl’s SuicideIt is stated that when Miss Bhargava, was alone in her house last night, some persons forced their way in and compelled her, at the. point of a knife, to submit to their advances. Shock and shame are said to have driven her to suicide. She sprink-ed kerosene on her clothesand set fire to them, it is stated. Smoke issuing from her room attracted the attention of neighbours who took her to the Victoria Hospital.It is stated that, in her dying declaration, Miss Bhargava named the persons who molested her.The girl’s father was in Allahabad when he received the news. He arrived here this morning.P.T.I. adds: The police have taken in custody about 20 people in connection with the clashes. Officials said tonight that the situation was “well in hand.”According to an official press note issued tonight, about 25 persons, including five constables, were injuredReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.a hartal observed by business students demanding stern action have ravished last night a col-soon after' the incident-in today’s incidents, and were treated in hospital. One of them was reported to have received serious injuries.As tension began to mount in the morning, the District Magistrate ordered armed guards to be posted at all strategic points in the city. 'Army PatrolHe also called in police reinforcements from neighbouring areas, as well as three platoons of the military. He explained to pressmen later that the military personnel were given the task of merely patrolling the affected areas, and any active steps necesary to meet the situation were being taken by the'civil authorities themselves.The authorities also set up a control room with wireless equipment in the city Kotwali.The District Magistrate, Mr. R. C. Srivastava, also called an urgent meeting of prominent citizens to discuss the situation and devise concerted measures for the maintenance of peace.	.	1A shooting incident occurred in the evening when, according to reports, someone opened fire with a gun from inside a house in one of the affected localities.After the shooting incident, Mr. tB. B. Chaturvedi, First Class Magistrate, raided the house from where the shot was fired and arrested an inmate with a gun. As the police van moved away from the place with the inmate, a crowd threw brickbats at the van. The police used tear gas to disperse it. The magistrate was injured.
﻿12 injured in Gujarat riotsThe Times of India (J86J-current); Mar 2, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1AHMEDABAD, March 1: Twelve persons were injured, some of them seriously, in group clashes and incidents of stone-throwing in Surat, Mehsana district, Ahmedabad and Baroda during the Holi festivities in Gujarat, reports PTI.The police burst teargas shells to disperse two wanjng groups in Surat. Two persons were injured in the heavy stone-throwing.In Siddhpur town of Mehsana .district, two persons received head injuries when two groups clashed over the sprinkling of colours. Lethal weapons were freely used, the police said. Trouble was also reported from Vidhyanagar in the district.In Baroda, two persons were assaulted with knives by a group, which objected to the throwing of coloured powder.Cases of assault were also reported from Dehgam town of Ahmedabad district and Amraiwadi area of the city.According to the state police control, the overall situation was re' ported to be by and large peaceful.12 injured inReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Gujarat communal riots follow set patternASHRAF SAYEDThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 19, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 20Bv ASHRAF SAYEDThe Times of India News Service AHMEDABAD. September 1&.Bv ASHRAF SAYED The Times of India News Service AHMED ABAD. September 1&.communal ciasnes nave oeen reported from Mehsana, Sabarkantha, Ahmedabad, Kaira and Panchmahals districts following systematiccommunal ciasnes nave oeen reported from Mehsana, Sabarkantha, Ahmedabad, Kaira and Panchmahals districts following systematicTHE sudden spurt in communal violence in small towns and villages of Gujarat in the last few days has exposed the designs of some known communal organisations, out to achieve petty political goals.rumour-niongcnng oy interestedparties during the last week.Though the state administration has tried to underplay the seriousness of the incidents by describing them as “isolated” and “insignificant”, a close scrutiny of these incidents reveals a set pattern.It seems that the Bharatiya Janata Party and its front organisations want to gauge the public mood on how much the Hindu card can be played in the next electoral contest. The recent incidents of communal violence indicate that these organisations have fairly succeeded in arousing the religious sentiments of the people.GANG WARFor example, a gang war between the dons of ttvo criminal outfits, which led to the murder of a youth in the Kheralu town in Mehsana district, was given a communal twist by motivated propaganda, leading to large-scale violence.In the communal frenzy, one person was stabbed to death and seven others were injured. The police fired six rounds to. control the situation, but only after much damage was done to private property.The incident, which was a sequel to an earlier murder of a rival gang leader, .was systematically utilised by interested parties to fan the fires of communal hatred in nearby villages.If the police intelligence sources are to be believed, volunteers of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad moved from village to village, arousing the sentiments of the people in the name of the Ram Janmabhoomi issue. ' Within two days of the Kheraluincident, violence broke out on September 12 at Malpur, Ghorisana, Otalpur, Kuda and Sidhpur villages of Kheralu taluka in Mehsana district. As many as 17 shops were looted and set on fire and eight people got injured.GANESH PROCESSION Similarly, the first-ever lord Ganesh procession in Kanajari village of Kaira district provided the background for violence. The police fired seven rounds to disperse violent mobs.Again group clashes also took place on September 13 and September 15 at Dhandhuka towrvin Ahmedabad district and Meghraj town in Sabarkantha district, respectively, in connection with the bandh call given by the Bharatiya Janata Party, the VHP and the Shiv Sena to mark the foundation laying ceremony of the Ram Janmabhoomi temple.In a span of six days, violence resulted in the death of one person and injuries to 30 others. As many as 21 shops were looted by mobs, forcing the police to open fire 14 rounds.During 1985 and 1987 the communal riots were mostly confined to big cities and towns like Ahmedabad, Baroda, Godhra, Bharuch, Palanpur and Wajikaner.The pattern this time is perceptibly changing. Most of the violent incidents are confined to the rural areas.It is practically impossible for the law inforcing agencies to provide protection to the people in the far-flung rural areas.Invariably, the police could reach the affected villages only after the damage had already been done by miscreants. Expectedly such isolated but well planned incidents have created a sense of insecurity among the people.The Amarsinh Chaudhary ministry cannot afford to ignore the police intelligence reports that some communal organisations are now bent upon whipping up the communal-feelings of the people on the Rani ' Janmabhoomi issue.	-As it can be made an election issue, the BJP and its front organisations are trying their best to mobilisepublic opinion on it. In the past also, the BJP had gained political strength, after communal violence 'in., Ahmedabad, where it captured the;j city civic body with a thumping,! majority.	■;*On the other hand a rank com** munalist and known bootlegged Abdul Latif Abdul Vahab Shaikh, could win from five wards on the sympathy of the Muslims.	v.\The BJP has also injected a new ! militancy among its front organisa!> tions like the Bharatiya Kisan Sangfr! and the VHP. This betame evident at-' the silver jubilee celebration function,' of the Sabar dairy held at Himatnagar on September 15.HOSTILE CROWD A hostile crowd of nearly 2O,0OQ*. farmers, assembled on the occasion^ not only hooted and abused the chief* minister, Mr Amarsinh Chaudhary^ but also threw all kinds of missiles at-? the dais, forcing the organisers t<f abandon the function mid-way.The chief minsiter was earlier assured by 'a delegation of farmers that they would behave at the function^ Moreover, the chief minister haf given several concessions to farmers'! in the past, which had cost the stat& exchequer more than Rs 200 crores$ And this time also, he has offered' to consider all their demands, including early payment of crop insurance dues and review Of the irrigation-rates.But the Himatnagar episode was*» staged to warn the state adminis^ tration and the Congress party of th$< shape of things to come. Not satisfied' with the flexing of muscles at Himd-tnagar, the BKS has now organised a; massive rally on September 19 to “gherao” the state assembly to prov^ that the Congress is anti-farmer and* the BJP is the only organisation^ fighting for the cause of agriculturist^ in the state. .	_	,tj, However, on the two threats,<the^ communal one can be potentially the most troublesome. The farmers’ issue can be debated and sorted out either through negotiations or conceding* some of their demands, but com%i munal disturbances in the rural areas?! can only be ignored at the cost of! grave consequences.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿4	Indore officials transferredINDORE October 18The Times of India (1861-current); Oct 19, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 7.4 Indore officialstransferredIN a major development, the Madhya Pradesh government effected changes in the top posts of the administration and police ip the Indore division and district.i An official report said the Idon divisional commissioner, Mr S. K Sood, the district collector, M Bhagirath Prasad, the inspector-gen eral of police, Mr B. R. Luthra, ant the superintendent of police, Mr S. K Raut, have been replaced by M Naresh Narad, Mr Sudhir Nath, M Surjit Singh and Mr S. S. Shukla respectively. However, the homi minister, Mr Japal Singh, said M Sood’s transfer has been stayed.The government yesterday an nounced the terms of reference fo the judicial inquiry to be conductet into the disturbances.An official release said the inquiry to be conducted by the single-mem ber commission comprising Mr Jus tide K. K. Dubey, a retired judge o the Madhya Pradesh high courtwould concentrate on the background, causes and circumstances leading to the disturbances.The commission would also inquire into the adequacy or otherwise of the measures taken to deal with the disturbances by the district administration and such other matters as were incidental and ancillary to the enquiry, including recommendations for prevention of a recurrence of such incidents.The commission had been asked to complete the inquiriy and report to the state government within three months.Meanwhile, two deaths were reported as sporadic incidents of stabbing, arson, firing and stone-throwing continued in various parts of the city, where curfew continued.A mob attacked and killed a man while he was being taken from police custody to his home in Labaria Bheru area yesterday.The superintendent of the Maharaja Yashwant Rao hospital today confirmed the death. The official death toll in the violence has risen to 22.■ A railway police constable said his son was injured yesterday when he was shot at while returning home.JHARIA NORMAL (PTI from Patna): With no untoward incident reported from anywhere in the Jharia town near Dhanbad since mid-day yesterday, curfew was lifted this morning, according to the deputy commissioner, Dhanbad, Mr Ram Sevak Sharma. ( .. Mr Sharma sat'd that prohibitory orders were, however, still in force,though tlte situation was fully under 1 control.; Mr Sharma also said that only six : persons were injured in the communal violence in the town and not ■ 12 as reported earlier. The injuries ! were of a minor nature and the six I were discharged after first aid.I About 40 persons had so far been i taken into custody. Mr Sharma- attributed the trouble to runiour-i mongering. Some mischief-makers had spread rumours about com! munal clashes in different pockets of i the Jharia town and also in the nearby coal city of Dhanbad which led to the violence, he said.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Many hurt in Srinagar violence: lathi-charge made, troops called outThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Aug 26, 1967; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1“The Times of India’* News ServiceSRINAGAR, August 25.'JROOPS were called out this morning as a precautionary measure to assist the civil authorities in maintaining law and order in Srinagar which Jms been in the grip of an agitation for the past 15 days over the alleged abduction of a mrl. '' The police had to resort to a lathi-charge in the afternoon to disperse a 3,000-strong crowd which tried to take out a procession in defiance pf prohibitory orders. Earlier, the police burst tear-gas shells,According to the authorities, 23 police officials, including the deputy inspector-general of police were injured as a result of the throwing of stones by the processionists. A magistrate was also.; injured,■The Home Secretary, Mr. G* R.Renzoo^'told newsman that the number of demonstrators.; injured could not be ascertained .immediately. But according to the action, comndittee of the community which has launched the agitation against the alleged abduction of‘the girl, more than 150 ,de-.monstralors were injured.	.CURFEW NOT NEEDEDMr. Renzoo said the situation in the city did not warrant- the imposition ol curfew. Except for these incidents ai the. Sheetal Nath temple, life in the city was “almost normal.” 'He said that three companies of the army were called out in the moraine to assist the civil authorities “in case of an emergency.”	’ •The clash between the .demonstrators and the police occurred at 3 p.m. when the former tried tp take out a procession from the premises of th»Sheetal Nath temple. The ding-dona battle continued for .more than three hours.'	,The polioe asked.the,crowd to hand over to them five satyagraha who wanted to court arrest but the demonstrators insisted , on taking them out in procession. ‘ The. five satya.' grahis courted arrest late in the evening.	’ .	. :	'Mr. Renzoo said some 3,000 people had gathered at Sheetal Nath’ by midday. > Though the district magistrata had imposed “a ban' on processions, fhe demonstrators attempted to violate the ban. •	-	1BRICK-BATS AND STONESIn enforcing the . order, the police had to resort to., a lathi-charge when the processionists threw .brick-bats,.; pieces . of Wood and stones'.at.thecal Some people threw I brickrbats’ from nduse-ltops. • The police had to:' buristf tear-gas- shells, also.;	:	1Replying to i question,. Mr. Renzoo’ said that, it was.- .true-	gitasslpanes of a temple at Ganpatiyar were broken yesterday on account of stonethrowing.. ,v •	; y-'	’He said that most Government employees belonging- . to.; the minority , community ' attended office today. A list of. those who abstained’ was being prepared; by the Chief Secretary.,; He said he had receiyed no report of college, girls having been-manhandled yesterday . evening. . .Thirty-five people, belonging . to both communities, .Were arrested yesterday, some of them under' the. PrevertT five Detention .Act. Among those ar-1 rested was. the marshal of the Legis-! lative Council. , • .	' iThe. divisional commissioner, Mr.Anwag Karim, said that though , some people,, including the Jan Sangh leader,Mr. Balraj.Madhok, and Hindu Maha-sabha leaders, had come from outside, it would-not ;be correct to say. that the agitation’was being sustained by. them entirely. By and large, it was a local affair. • * \	‘A rally of over .12,000 people wasContinued on Page 7 Column 3Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.Disturbances in SrinagarContinued from Page 1 Column 7held- at the Hazratbal shrine in the afternoon. Khawaja Ali Shah, president of the.. Muslim • Endowment, Trust, and Mr. Saddaruddin Mujahid, Plebiscite Front leader, and others addressed the meeting. ' They criticised Mr. Madhok for his speech and appealed to business men to open their shops tomorrow.:	They also urgedthem to maintain communal Harmony.Later in the evening, a batch of five people began a 24-hour token hunger-strike at the Sheetal Nath temple.	.	.A delegation of the action committee met the Governor and apprised him of the situation. The delegation is reported to have told the Governor that if their community’s life and property could not be protected, they would migrate to other parts of the country in batches.A general hartal was observed in the city today by both communities.At Anantnag, 35 miles from here, processions were taken Put by the two communities, but no untoward incident was reported. There was a. generaThartal in Anantnag and Sopore towns.	'Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew clamped as 3 killed in Kanpur clashesThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); May 20, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1TWO KILLED IN BROACHThe Times of India News ServiceKANPUR, May 19.CURFEW has been clamped in several areas of the city following communal clashes which broke out this morning. Three persons have been killed and more than a dozen injured.The police and para-military forcesare patrolling sensitive pockets of thecity.	.The violence was sparked off when the campaign procession of a BJP candidate was attacked.Many shops have been burnt and bombs thrown at police patrols.The authorities claim two persons were killed but unconfirmed reports put the toll at three. An administration spokesman said, the situation is tense but under control.According to the police, an unidentified person was brought dead /to a hospital and eleven others were admitted with multiple injuries after group clashes broke out at the morning rally, reports UNI.The injured included the Sama-jvadi Janata Party (SJP) Lok Sabha candidate, Mrs Tashmin Asraf, the chairman of U.P. cooperative federation, Mr Ram Gopal Puri, and two police constables.Mrs Asraf and Mr Puri were injured when the car in which they were travelling was attacked by the frenzied mob near the parade crossing here.The district magistrate, Mr Kapal Deo, said that security had been beefed up in the wake of the trouble and electioneering within city limits has been ordered stopped with immediate effect The city goes to the pollon May 26.Tne stone-pelting mob later resorted to anon and looting in some areas. Some vehicles were set ablaze and shops looted in Beconganj and its sorrounding areas.	,The police resorted to lathi-charge to disperse the warring groups at the Parade Crossing, Beconganj and Meston Road. The retreating mob set fire to the central office of the CPM candidate at Bara Chaurah.During the trouble, shots were fired in the air and country-made bombs were lobbed at the police party. Police vehicles were also damaged.CPM supportere claimed some anti-socials attacked the party procession near'Pakia Park in Bazaria.Tension mounted immediately in other parts resulting in a series of violent clashes.Para-military forces are being deployed at sensitive places and pa-trolling has been intensified in the entire area.Meanwhile, in Varanasi, the curfew continued to be in force, but no fresh incidents were reported. The situation in the old city is still being described as tense.The body of an independent candidate, Mr Bajrangr Lai Gupta, was recovered from a bush in Haria township. The police suspect that Mr Gupta was killed last night and his body dumped here. With Mr Gupta's murder, pre-poll violence has claimed the lives of four independent candidates.Ahmedabad: Two persons were killed and five injured in police firing, stabbing and stone-throwing when communal violence broke out following the clashes between the Congress and BJP workers in Broach town this afternoon.The trouble began, when some Congress workers had destroyed the banners of the BJP in the Chhipwadi area. Hundreds of BJP workers from the nearby Dhobiwadi area indulged in heavy stone-throwing. Soon the altercation turned into communal violence.Two groups of people from both Dhobiwadi and Chhipwadi areas came out on the roads and indulged in heavy stone-throwing. Even acid bulbs and petrol bombs were used in attacking each other.The t police resorted to a lathi-charge, but in vain. In order to disperse the clashing groups, they(Continued on Page 11)Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.Curfew clamped on Kanpur(Continued from Page 1) fired 19 rounds killing one person and injuring two, They also lobbed 20 teatgas shells to quell the rioting groups. An attempt was made by the angry mob to set two houses on fire, but it was foiled by the police.A youth was stabbed to death near the PWD store by a group of ten people.'PATNA (PTI): in a fierce encounter between the police and criminals in Buxar district tonight, an additional police superintendent and a constable were seriously injured, according to official sources.The sources said late tonight that the ASP, Mr Tqj Hussan, received serious gun-shot injuries and had to be rushed to Buxar hospital for immediate surgery.They said the encounter occurred at village Mangrao under Rajpur police station tonight and the criminals involved could not be immediately identified.Meanwhile, alleged extremists belonging to the outlawed Maoist Communist Centre (MCC) torched the Ismailpur railway station and two cabins under Konch police station of Bihar’s Gaya district late last night, according to the DIG Magadh Range, Mr Ranjit Shah.Mr Sinha told PTI here today that the extremists, numbering over 200, swooped down on the railway station around mid-night and set fire to the station as also two cabins.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Cong. MLAs’ threatThe Times of India (1861-current); Mar 12, 1974; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1. AHMF.DABAD, March 11: Seventeen Congress legislators, including the former deputy chief minister, Mr. Kantilal Ghia, handed over their resignations from the Gujarat assembly to the A1CC secretary, Mr. Chandrajit Yadav, at Gandhinagar today, declaring thpir support to the demand for the dissolution' of the assembly:	.In a memorandum to Mr. Yadav, these legislators threatened to deliver their letters of resignation per-sonally to the speaker if no final decision on the dissolution was announced at the earliest.”Besides Mr.' Ghia, five other ministers of the erstwhile Chimanbhai Patel government were among the 17 signatories to the memorandum. They are Mr. Amarsinh Chaudhapy, Mr. Piyiish Thakore, Mr. V. M. Motiani, Mr. Soniji Damor and Mr. Navinchandra Ravani.The members requested Mr. Ya-diu to forward their . resignation letters to the speaker with intimation to them..Seventy-four members of the 168-member assembly, including 47 • out ot the total 140 Congress MLA’s, have already tendered their resignations.	;The signatories said that a “large number’' of the remaining Congress MLAs shared their views and were likely to send their resignations. —P.T.I.	' ,Curfew reimposed on JabalpurJABALPUR. March 11: A precautionary ten-hour curfew was reimposed, from 1900 hours in. areas covering a third of the city after , a 13-hour re-faxaiion today,	•. Arson, looting' and stone-throwing incidents were reported on Saturday after some people sprinkled coloured water and powder, on another group.The additional district magistrate, Mr. R, JR. Dube, said this evening that no untoward incident had been reported in the past 54 hours and the situation was under control. Over 300 people had been arrested sc far for various offences.Shops, hotels and restaurants were open today and- taxis and cycle-rickshaws plied as usual.—P.T.I.2 civic bodies supersededGANDHINAGAR, March 11: The Gujarat government has superseded the Ahmedabad and- Surat municipal corporations.This follows the resignation by all the councillors but one in the Ahmedabad corporation. and all but two in the Surat corporation in support of the demand for the disolution of the Gujarat assembly. —P.T.IReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿8 killed in AP riotUNIThe Times of India (J86J-current); May 30, 1983; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 18 killed in AP riotHYDERABAD, Mav 29 (UNtt.EIGHT people were killed and more than 35 injured ia clashes and a series of stabbing incidents between two communities in Mangalghat area in Hyderabad city late last night, according to police sources, 'One person was injured in the firing .by police to quell violence and arson. Twenty people have been arrested so far.The chief minister, Mr. N. T. Rama Rao, who returned this morning from Vijayawada, went round the disturbed areas and supervised police arrangements and appealed to* the people to maintain peace.The trouble began wnen people of one community threw stones at a marriage procession in protest against the playing of, music while the procession was passing by a place of worship. This led to a series of clashes and arson in the locality.After visiting the houses of some of those killed in the clashes, he announced an ex-gratia payment of Rs. 5,000 to the next of kin of those killed. He also instructed the officials to make immediate arrangements for food and relief of the affected families.The chief minister was accompanied by the finance minister, Mr. N. Bhas-kara Rao, the wakfs minister, Mr. Mohamed Shakir, the director-general of police, Mr. K. G. Erady, the commissioner of police, Mr. K. Vijaya-rama Rao, the chief secretary, Mr.B. N; Raman, and local legislators.Meanwhile, several Congress (1) leaders, including the leader of the opposition in the Andhra Pradesh legislative council, Mr. K. Rosiah, and Mr. K. S. Narayana, MP, condemned the incidents and appealed to the government to '* take necessary steps to prevent violence.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Chandernagore under curfew: 4 killed in clashThe Times of India (J86J-current); Mar 6, 1969; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9Chandernagore under curfew:4 killed in clashLHANUbKNAOURK (West Bengal), March 5: Four persons were killed and 25 persons injured in a clash between two groups of peole at Telenipara and its joining areas under the jurisdiction of the Bhadreswar and Chandernagore police- stations of the Hoqphly district today.The police said that two persons were killed instantaneously while two at hers died after admission in hospital.Following the incidents of cracker-hrowing, arson and violence by two groups, dusk-to-dawn curfew was imposed on the atrecied areas later in [he day. .Earlier, Jhp police fired 20 rounds >f tear-gas 'shells to disperse the :rowd and arrested 170 persons.The trouble started after a Holi procession was attacked by some people.		^Mr. Chittaranjan Cuba Mazumdar, he district magistrate. Roughly, and Vlr. S. K. Guha Mazumdar, Superin-endent of Police. Hooghl?, brought he situation under control.A strong police picket has been costed in- the disturbed area. Section 144 Cr. P.C. has been . imposed.—Calcutta: A seven-hour curfew from ) p.m. on Wednesday bas been imposed in some areas in Titaghur in the 74-Parganas district following violence n connection with the- Holi. festival.Thirteen persons have been injured □ incidents.An order under 144 Cr. P.C. ban* ling the Assembly of five .or more persons has been promulgated.—P.T. 1.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Fresh Gujarat riots claim 5The Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jan 8, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1The Times of India News ServiceAHMEDABAD, January 7.AT least five people were killed in Gujarat as communal violence spread to Baroda where a part of the Wadi police station area was placed under indefinite curfew in the afternoon.The minister of state for home, Mr Prabodhkant Pandya, told reporters in Gandhinagar that the fresh spurt in violence in Ahmedabad had claimed three lives and left 19 injured. The police had fired 130 rounds and lobbed 134 tear-gas shells in the last 24 hours in the curfew-bound Gom-tipur area.In Bafoda, two persons, including a woman, were stabbed to death and 12 injured in the sudden outbreak of violence. The police commissioner claimed that effective steps had enabled the police to bring the situ ation under control within 20 minutes of the violence breaking out at Fatehpura, where ten incidents of stabbing were reported.A maid-servant who was passing by at Fatehpura was stabbed to death. The other person who was similarly done to death was a lock-smith at Laheripura.Unconfirmed reports attributed the Baroda violence to a quarrel between two groups of people stand-ing in a queue for buying kerosene al Dhudhoya. Soon the violence spread to the Koyali Faliya, Mehta Pole and Fatehpura areas. The police had to open fire at several places and reports said one person was hurt in the firing. The condition of some of the injured was said to be serious.Incidents of stone-thowing, firing by a miscreant and bomb blasts continued in Ahmedabad. The police fired 35 rounds and lobbed 55 tear-gas shells to disperse two mobs at Gomtipur in the wee hours today. The mobs threw an unspecified number of burning rags at each other and indulged in brick-batting for ball an hour.Four houses were set on fire at Gomtipur. The mobs tried to loot and set ablaze three shops. An explosion occurred near the wall of a cinema in which two people were injured. Additional companies of the SRP have been deployed in the affected areas. Explosions were reported at a bus-stand at Rakhial cross-roads, injuring two persons, including a woman. Two persons were stabbed near a vegetable market in the busy Manek Chowk area this afternoon. Following the stabbing, tension gripped Gandhi Road where shoDkeeoers downed shutters huttraffic continued to ply normally.A miscreant fired a round from the terrace of a house near Shamsherbaug and injured one person. A youth was stabbed near Master Mills.The police carried out intensive combing at Hazigafuumi chawl and Swan Pankhini chawl in the Gomtipur area and recovered 14 petrol bombs, ten crude bombs and huge stocks of rags and stones. At least ten persons were taken into custody in this connection.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿BJP rakes communal fire in GujaratThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Apr 7, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9The Times of India News ServiceAHMEDABAD, April 6.WITHIN 25 days of the Janata Dal-BJP coalition ministry, headed by the chief minister, Mr Chimanbhai Patel, taking, charge, Gujarat has witnessed as many as 136 communal clashes which have claimed 13 lives and left 75 iniured.During the Congress rule, the Janata Dal and the BJP had charged that the then-ruling party men were inciting the communal violence. The boot is now on the other foot.The coalition government took over on March 12. Unfortunately, soon after the new ministry assumed charge, the law and order situation started deteriorating. It all began with the Holi reveliy in Patan town of Mehsana district when large-scale violence broke out after a trivial dispute over the sale of cinema tickets in the blackmarket.The clashes that ensued left two killed and seven injured within two hours. The next day, the situation worsened with politicians trying to fish in troubled waters. The whole issue was given a political turn and the authorities were forced to imposeindefinite curfew which lasted for more than eight days. Even today night curfew is in force In Patan.Just when violence was tapering off in Patan, communal clashes broke out in the sensitive Broach town. The beginning of trouble has been traced to a heated discussion between two groups over apportioning of responsibility for the Patan violence,Broach had to be placed under indefinite curfew following sporadic incidents of group clashes, arson and looting. The BJP leaders lost no time in giving a bandh call in the town and even on the day of the bandh the town witnessed group clashes.The loss of lives and injuries to innocent people found its echo in Halej town of Kaira district. Mr Girishbhai Chandubhaki Patel, president of the town unit of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad, was kidnapped and done to death by a group of unidentified people.The murder of Mr Patel left a trail of communical clashes in Anand town and its surrounding areas. Widespread arson and looting took place. Once again the BJP leaders opted to give a bandh call, setting the stage for more violence.A group of VHP and BJP workers, while passing by a place of worship, reportedly abused youths waiting nearby. The altercation resulted inmajor clashes and Anand town, too, had to be placed under curfew.And even before the situation in Broach, Patan, Anand and Bhalej could be completely brought under control, Ahmedabad is already engulfed in communal fire. Several parts of the Gomtipur area, a labour belt of the city, have been placed under indefinite curfew and within two days, six people were stabbed to death.Observers are inclined to attribute the violence to the BJP’s desire to prove its political supremacy. The Janata Dal and the BJP may have buried the hatchet, but every one knows where the hatchet is buried.This impression is strengthened by the local BJP leaders’ aggressive role in the Kalupur and Dariapur areas during the past two days, they gave a bandh call and also staged a dharna, purportedly to protest against alleged police misbehaviour, but in the process vitiated the atmosphere. In all probability, they are perhaps trying to prove that the ministry headed by Mr Chimanbhai Patel has no control over the law and order situation because the chief minister himself has kept the home portfolio and the minister of state for home, Mr Narhari Amin, is also a Janata Dal man.On the other hand, the minoritycommunity in all the riot-affected areas of the state is left in utter confusion and frustration because ii docs not have any proper represent tation. With the BJP in power, the minorities feel insecure. More than20,000	Muslim women had gathered in front of the Kalupur police station last night demanding the release of Muslim youths who were detained bjj' the police. Never before in the past have Muslim women ghcraoed any police station in the city.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿MEETING POWER SHORTAGE: CINEMA HOUSES TOLD TO RESTRICT SHOWSThe Times of India News serviceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jan 30, 1960; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 12PunjabMEETING POWER SHORTAGECinema Houses Told To Restrict Shows“The Times of India News ServicePATIALA, January 28:	ThePunjab State Electricity Board today took further steps to meet the situation arising out of acute power shortage in the State.Mr. 1. N. Chona, Secretary of the Board, told newsmen that the Board had requested all cinema houses in the Punjab to stop matinee shows voluntarily during the emergency.It had also asked all licensees, who were getting bulk supply from the board, to utilise their Diesel sets to the maximum capacity so as to lessen the demand on the Board’s system,CALL TO CONSUMERS30 ARRESTED IN KATNI CLASH Sequel To Romance“The Times of India” News ServiceJABALPUR, January 29; The romance of a 15-year-old girl with a college student led to a clash in fcatni where 30 people had been arrested on a charge of rioting.It is alleged that the girl was found in the house of the college student -on Republic Day. Some members of the girl’s community are said to have beaten up the student when he was returning from a cinema show at night. The student was arrested by the police next morning.When other students came to know of the episode, they demanded his release. The police refused.The students held a meeting, Mem« bers of the girl's community held a rival meeting.	.The police said that the situation was under control in Katni. The Deputy Inspector-General of Police{ Thakur Surendra Singh, left for Katnithis mnrninuMr. Chona said that industrial consumers in the State had been advised to reduce their consumption by one-third by eliminating unnecessary and unimportant processes and even by curtailing their working hours and production, if necessary.He added that, on account of an abnormal and unprecedented fall in the water flow of the Sutlej and Uhl, power generation was not adequate at Ganguwal, Kotla and Jogtndernagar stations. Further efforts to augment the supply by utilising all available thermal plants had also unfortunately failed to yield satisfactory results.In view of .those circumstances, he said, the Board had appealed to all consumers to cut down consumption drastically.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Fire Loss 1 -- No TitleThe Times of India (1861-current); Mar 28, 1964; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1were killed and six injured. Fire was opened when looting	and acts ofarson were in progress.Several hundreds have been evacuated from interior	villages andbrought to Chaibasa	under policeescorts.—P.T.l.Adivasi Mobs Fired OnPATNA, March 27: Tire police opened fire on a violent mob of Adivasis in the thana headquarters of Bano Insimdega sub-division, Ranchi District, last night killing two, according to an official report here.Troops also opened fire on another Adivasi mob in Jaldcgn village, in' Bano thana, last night killing one, the report added. There verc no reports of other incidents in the district.Troops also opened fire last • night on an unruly tribal mob near Sint-diri.One person was killed and two were injured.The police also opened fire at Jagannathpur and Barkjamda in the interior of Singhbhum Distiict on tribal mobs in which two personsReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew in Delhi, Meerut calmThe Times of India (1861-current); Jul 25, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9NPW npl HI Tiifv 54INDEFINITE curfew was today clamped on die sensitive areas of he ,tailed city ofDelhi as a necautionary measure in view of he .fresh incidents of violence inThte curfew imposed at 11 a.m. was not relaxed. “We will review the situ* ation tomorrow morning,” a senior police official said. ;No Untoward incident was reported from any of the cutfew-bound areas and people were allowed to offer Friday prayers in mosques. * v Prohibitory order under section 144 CriP.C was also invoked with inunedi-atb>ffect under the ponce statktosof Chandni Mahal, Hauz Quaa and Jama Masjid and parts of Chtindni Chowk and Farashkhana areas.Some areas of the walled city were Blre^ under nighfcurfew since May 19 following incidents of violence whiCT’llairtied 10 liveic:Addressing a cOhgr^fkrt^at the lama'Masjid, the Indtfn efdlOd .upon the people to maidiajtt communal harmony and be cautiotisqfdjstoptive forces which were benftiip^n {disturbing peace not only in thecapita!,.but also in manypam of the country.The Times of India, New Service adds: The supreme court today issued notices to the Uttir Pradesh government and its various administrative agencies asking them tc^show cause why a writ petition filed in “public interest” on the Meerut riots should not be admitted.Mr Justice Raneanath Mishra and Mr Justice M. M. Dutt issued thenotices on a wm petition iiiea oy wePeople’s Union for Democratic Rightsseeking directions for the payment of exemplary damages to all those affected during the riots between May 19 and 28 in the Hashimpura area of Meerut •	\According to the petition, a large, number of persons were either killed or seriously injured during the riots. Properties were damaged in what the, petition described as “state violence and inhuman treatment meted out by the Provincial Armed Constabulory.Such actions by the state govern*, mentor its PAC wherein violation of articles 14, 19, 21 and 22 of the constitution, the petition added.CALM SITUATION (PTI from Meerut): No untoward incident Was reported from any part ofMeerutasno curfew relaxation was given in several areas of the city rocked by violence following the killing of eigtht bus passengers near here yesterday. ,The additional district magistrate said the city remained peaceful.and the Shivratri festival -passed off without any incident with ^devotees offering Ganges water in various temples. >. He said intensive patrolling by the PAC and the army was continuing in the sensitive areas and elaborate secur* ity arrangements were made to prevent disturbances during the Friday prayer.In some areas,the day curfew was relaxed from 4 a.m. to 10 p.m.Troops called out yesterday following the violence would continue to assist the authorities in maintaining law and order.Giving details of the preliminary inquiry on the killing, the Meerutdivisional commissioner said the ill* feted!#IbeUftd	Bijndre was; fere*ibty diverted from its route by some 20 persons who boarded it here. <He said tbey took it towards Vaked-pur village where a crowd was wajHting. The miscreants got'info the bus and began assaulting members of a particular community.	v 'Some of them were dogged out and lynched. Five people died on the spot, twodieji at the medical college here andonernBijnbre. Threewomen were among the victims. ».The crowd alro tried to intercept two buses of the Rajasthan Road Transport Corporation but failed.A rtjxM from Musaffaroagar said that security measures have been tightened in the district ‘BANDH PEACEFUL (TOINS from Srinajgar):-Barring *tay incidents, the bandh throughout the valley Called to protest against the killings of bus passengers near Meerut passed off peacefully today.	t• The bandb call had been. given jointly by the ruling alliance.?of the National Conference (F) and the Congress. .'	. • :	.	. , .., Banks and government offices, both state and Central functioned nonhally. However, educational institutions remained closed and barring autorickshaws, all public transport stayed off the roads.. In a statement, the chairman of the Awami Action Committee, Mirwaiz Mohammed Farooq, condemned the “barbarous act and urged the Centre to control such killings. He also demanded the dismissal of the U.P. governmentReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Army may take charge of MeerutThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); May 22, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1The Times of India News ServiceLUCKNOW, May 21.HIGH-level consultations arc understood to have started for handing over the control of Meerut district to the army, as the deployment of troops and para-military forces has failed to deter the rioters who continued to attack police parties ana indulge in acts o arson even in the curfew-fret areas.The Delhi-Uttar Pradesl boundary was sealed as rhobs in dulged in violence last night anc today. The authorities extendec . curfew to new areas as the rioting spread.The areas falling under the jurisdiction of the .Sadar Bazar and Lalkurti police stations have been brought under curfew mainly because of their proximity to the army sub-area headquarters.	.	.The rioters set fire lo about a dozen shops in the predominantly majority community posh market area on P. L. Sharma road. Mobs also indulged in arson and stone-throwing on the Wester Kutchery road, hardly two furlongs away from the district police headquarters near the collcctorate. Similar incidents occurred at the Mawana bus stand adjacent to the Civil Lines police station. There were pitched battled between mobs al Soiiganj and at some other points near the Sadar Bazar police station.With the death of three persons in curfew-bound Hashimpura locality last night and recovery of a few more bodies, the death roll in Meerut city disturbances since Monday night rose to 39. according to reports reaching the government headquarters here.The district magistrate in his report to the government confirmed the death of only 26 persons, though unofficially the loll was stated to be over 70.The police resorted to firing on a mob at Hashimpura last night resulting in the death of two persons. A shot fired from inside a place of worship forced the police to be on the defensive.The leader of the opposition, Mr Satyapal Sing Yadav, criticised the government for the deteriorating situation in Meerut and said the chief minister. Mr Vir Bahadur Singh.Mr Virshould resign on moral grounds.Mr Yadav said at a press conference that the loll in the disturbances was much more than officially stated. He said the chief minister should own the responsibility for his government’s failure to take adequate precautionary measures and resign as was done by Mr Vishwanath Pratap Singh who had quit as chief minister in the wake of massdouble-barrel gun. two country-made rifles and a khukri” were seized by the police in the Hashimpura area.The district magistrate said the situation in the city would be reviewed tomorrow morning.RAJIV FOR MEERUT (TOINS): The Prime Minister, Mr Rajiv Gandhi, is likely to visit Meerut tomorrow.He indicated this while talking to correspondents at Mufti Mohammad Saycd's residence in Delhi where he had gone for dinner.Mr Gandhi had mentioned that he would go to Meerut after a few days. The Mufti, however, impressed upon him the need to go as early as possible.Mr Gandhi then agreed and said he mighi go there tomorrow itself and visit the riot-affected areas.CURFEW RELAXED (TOINS from New Delhi): No untoward incident was reported during the four-hour curfew relaxation in the riot-affected walled city areas today.Curfew was imposed on Tuesday night following violent clashes inwhich two persons were killed and several others injured.The police said that patrolling was continuing and armed pickets stationed at all sensitive ppints. Senior police officials supervised the arrangements. The lieut-governor of Delhi, Mr H. L. Kapur also visited the riot-, affected areas. ,	1A police spokesman said that so far 112 people, including those who had reportedly indulged in rumourmongering, had been arrested. Several miscreants who had indulged in arstjn had been identified and efforts were being made to trace them.The spokesman said that during the housc-to-house searches carried out after the rioting,' a large quantity of brickbats and empty bottles were seized.	ITOLL RISES TO 6 (PTI from Bharuch): The death roll in the'disturbances which rocked Bharuch.town • in south Gujarat on Monday, today, rose to six with one more personsuccumbing to stab wounds at a hospital in Baroda.In view of the continued improvement in the situation, the authorities relaxed the curfew for three hours this morning.The Banaskantha district magistrate, Mr H. K. Das, has promulgated orders banning lethal weapons in Palanpur town in north Gujarat. Inflammatory speeches or sloganeering likely to disturb the peace are also banned in the trouble-prone town where curfew was clamped following clashes this week.Licenced firearm holders have been asked to deposit their weapons with the police.CONCERN IN PAKISTAN (TOINS from Islamabad): The series of communal riots in different parts of India in the past few d^ys has caused considerable concern here. Several Pakistani newspapers have reported the incidents prominently and some have even given editorial comments.Officially the Pakistan government has scrupulously refrained from ex-pressing obvious concern because of the Indian government’s ‘susceptibilities in the matter. Nonetheless it would be unrealistic to expect the Pakistanis to remain unmoved.In an editorial, “The Frontier Post,” said today that it was hard to see how the Babri mosque dispute could ever get resolved. “If India’s 308 million Hindus firmly believe tne place to be what they say it is (the birthplace of Lord Rama), can anything make them yield ground, seeing that the era of the Moghuls can never return? Even if the Muslims are offered a prime site for a much larger mosque in return, will they stand for a god’s house becoming a place of idol worship?” it asked.Saying that the religious leaders of the two communities would make sure that no solution was reached, “The Frontier Post” suggested that the place be closed to both the communities “for as long as it takes them to realise that they might not be pleasing god or Rama by dying or killing in this quarrel”.A burnt bus (left) and a petrol pump damaged at Hapur Road, Meerut, during the recent riots (Another picture on Pane 9).killings by dacoits a few years ago.Wiih the situation worsening today, the state director general of police, Mr B. S. Bhatnagar. and other senior police officials rushed to Meerut for an on-the-spot assessment of the situation, reports PTI.Five more PAC companies have been deployed in addition to the 28 PAC and seven CRPF companies already engaged in maintaining law and order. Five army battalions are also assisting the administration.Mr Bhatnagar took stock of the situation and gave specific instructions to the police and parg-military forces to come down heavily on the troublemakers and ensure restoration of peace and order at all costs.Dpring the house-to-house searches conducted last night and today, aReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿ONE KILLED AND 31 INJURED IN CALCUTTA: POLICE LATHI-CHARGE ON CROWD ...The Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 11, 1954; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1“The Times of India” News ServiceCALCUTTA, September 10.f\NE person died in hospital this evening of injuries re-• ceived in a lathi-charge made by the police on 4,000 anti-cow slaughter demonstrators near the West Bengal Legislative Assembly hall today.The police hurled 23 tear gas shells to disperse the demonstrators who tried to break a cordon near the Assembly hall. Thirty-one persons, including six policemen were injured.Eighty-six persons, including three promihenl business men, Mr. Sohan Lai Duggar, Mr. B. D. Jhunjun Walla and Mr. MurpJidhar Acharya, who were in the pro cession marching to the Assembly hall, were arrested.as tne Assembly began its session in the afternoon, the demonstrator? mobilised by the “Go Raksha Sa-mity’* arrived near the Assembly hall shouting slogans.The crowd was stopped at the south-eastefn approach to the Assembly hall and some demonstrators began shouting slogans. In about 20 minutes a section of the crowd pressed forward. Mounted police rushed to the aid of the foot constables swinging batons. The infuriated crowd hurled stones at the police.A tear gas squad then exploded 23 shells. The demonstrators ran belter skelter, - screaming, and in a few minutes, hundreds of shoes; garlands and flowers were left where an angry crowd had been- shouting.JEEP ABANDONED/ Even a jeep belonging to the mmty was abandoned on onecars passing by, challenging the occupants who protested that they were not associated with the demonstration.One man was, however, pulled out of a car by a poHce officer who shouted: “I know you.” He was allowed to resume his journey after a few minutes.Crowds continued to shout derisively at the police from the nearby maidan for some time after the texr gas attack.. Two demonstrators waving the white flag of the Samity managed to reach the iron railing of the Assembly premises.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿VIOLENCE IN GUJARATThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jul 17, 1973; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 6VIOLENCE j IN GUJARATThe way in which violence has broken out and spread in Ahmedabad shows that tension in the city has been accumulating below the surface. What is particularly frightening is the ease with which any trouble degenerates into communal rioting. Many factors have conspired to create a situation that requires only the most trivial pretext to set off an explosion. Rising prices, food shortages and general deprivation have together bred mass frustration and insecurity. The more unscrupulous among the opposition parties have been only too eager to wring the maximum political advantage from the difficulties in which the government finds itself, difficulties that members of the ruling Congress party have themselves, it must be said, helped to create. Underlying them all, scarcely noticed but always there and always surfacing in a flash, iis communal suspicion, ill-will and hatred.Despite the fact that they have had a serious jeconomic and political crisis on their hands for some time] the ruling party members have been behaving as if they| couldn't care less about it. For the last several weeks, they blave been engaged not in trying to sort out the mess and nip public agitation in the bud, but in playing political games. Like the changing patterns in a kale-iodoscope, they have been grouping and regrouping around now this leader and now that in an attempt to heal the rifts in the party. To the people, struggling grimly to keep body and soul together, all this must appear as a mockery of their plight. When those who are supposed to be running the state have not the slightest concern about what is Happening under their very noses, how can the public retain any confidence in them? The paralysis of will that has overtaken the -administration as a .result of the politicians’ in-fighting has aggravated the people’s misery. In a crisis such as the present one. the administration needs to act more swiftly than usual. In fact, it now finds itself crippled. In thesje circumstances is it any wojnder that riotous mobs are abe to run amuck at will? In the last few years, especially since the carnage of 1969, Gujarat has had a surfeit of communal trouble. In Ahmedabad itself as well asPalanpur ina. burn-in Baroda, Junagadh. and other places, loot _ ing and killing have Liken place on a big scale. The present outbreak of violence is only another sign that there is some underlying rottenness which has yet to be rooted out. It should be the task of the government first to get the administration moving again and then to address itself to removing the basic causes of these periodic eruptions of communal tension which disfigure both the state and the country.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Anti-liquor mob fired at in AnantnagThe Times of India (J86J-current); Mar 10, 1982; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Anti-liquor mob fired atin AnantnagSRINAGAR, March 9 (PTD;VIOLENCE rocked Anantang town in North Kashmir today when supporters of the pro-Pakistan Peoples League clashed with the police in the main bazars of the township, 50 km. from here, leaving at least 65 persons injured;The police fired several' rounds in the air in a bid to disperse the unruly mobi when, lathi-charge and bursting of tear-gas shells proved ineffective. The trouble sparked off when the police personnel asked the shopkeepers to open their shops, which were “forcibly” closed because of picketing outside by the workers of the People’s League, who are demanding a complete ban on the sale of liquor.Pickets resented this, and clashed with the police and the workers of the League looted several wine shops and threw liquor bottles on the roadside.	-Earlier, the slogan-shouting supporters of the League took out, a procession and forced all the shopkeepers to pull down their shutters. , More than 45 persons have been arrested on charges of looting and disturbing peace. These include 20 persons, who were arrested yesterday.These injured include the magistrate on duty, a few senior police officials besides 30 police personnel, according to reports reaching here.Although the situation was described officially as “completely under control”, it was tense after the day’s clashes. .	.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Indefinite curfew in BharuchThe Times of India (J86J-current); May 19, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1Indefinite curfew in BharuchAHMEDABAD, May 1$ (PTJ): An indefinite curfew was clamped in Bharuch town of south Gujarat today, where sudden outbreak of violence yesterday claimed three lives.■ The curfew, which was imposed last ' night, was relaxed for three hours from > 8 a.m. Although no incident was re-I ported during the relaxation period, i curfew was reimposed as a precau-1 tionary measure, the state police control here said.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿200 held in VaranasiThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Nov 15, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1The Times of India N^wjt ServiceVARANASI, jN<j>v. 14.THE police arrested ajjout 200 persons and recoverlcd arms and explosive material ini a night-cnce which claimed eight lives with 12 seriously injured.Later talking to TOINS in Madanpura, Mr Bedi said three companies of CRPF and three companies of para-military forces had reached here. Now 20 companies of para-military force are stationed in the strife-torn city.A victim of yesterday’s violence, who is recovering in the hospital, said: “Everything was pre-planned. Soon after morning prayers on the loudspeakers fitted on house tops in Madanpura, the rioters came out on the road with knives and bombs 15 minutes before the expiry of the curfew relaxation and picked their targets after ensuring their community suffered no harm.”In the search which continued today, the Dasamesh police recovered about a dozen country-made pistols and revolvers over a dozen bombs and a large quantity of cartridges^ In Rcvri Talab area also the police succeeded in recovering one double-barrel gun,some country-made revolvers and airguns.Patrolling and house-to-house searches continued in nine police station areas of the city where curfew was reimposed, adds UNI. The situation was reported to be peaceful.Police in Lucknow confirmed one more death in yesterday’s violence. At least seven persons died yesterday in a fresh outbreak of violence.The district authorities in Lucknow did not relax curfew anywhere in the eight-curfew bound police stations and Lallapura areas of the ninth Sigra police station.The district administration, has completely sealed the sensitive areas of Madanpura, Reoritalab from Godowlia crossing to Bhelupura. Even newspersons were not allowed to enter these areas. It has also cancelled curfew passes for VIP’s issued previously.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Task Of Regional UniversitiesThe Times of India (1861-current); Feb 2, 1950; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 3Task Of Regional UniversitiesSIR H. V. DIVATIA’S VIEWS...■■ ■■ 'The task of regional universities in the country was to bring about an orientation in the existing system of education, said Sir Harsidbhai Divatia, Vice-Chancellor of the University of Gujerat, ia Bombay on Wednesday.Sir Harsidbhai was replying to a felicitation given to him, .. along with six other members of the Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan on their appointment to .public offices in the country, at Bhavan’s Hall., Diwan Bahadur K. M. Zaveri was in the chair.Among those who received congratulations were Dr. Rajendra Prasad, President of the Indian Republic, Dr. S. Radhakrishnan, Indian Ambassador to 'the Soviet Union, Mr. Justice N. H. Bhag-wati, Vice-Chancellor of the. Bombay University, Mr. J. M. Shelat, Additional Sessions Judge, Bombay, Mr. R. G. Saraiya, President^ of the Indian Merchants’ ChamberT and Mr. N. P. Nathwani, member of the Indian Parliament.Sir Harsidbhai said ' that regional universities, which would impart education in the regional languages, should not be regional-minded. He appealed to the executives of these universities to have a national outlook.. ............ - —Arrivals By AirMr. M. Anvar, Chief Adviser to the Punjab Governor, and leader of the Pakistan delegation to the Asian Regional Conference of the I.L.O., passed through Bombay by air on Wednesday from Colombo en route to Karachi. He was accompanied by five other members of the delegation.The same plane also, brought Mr. F. H. Sur, representative of Turkey at the I.L.O. Governing Body meeting at Mysore, who had later, participated in the Asian Regional Conference. He will stay for three days in Bombay before returning to Am-, kara.Among those who arrived in Bombay from London by an Air-India International plane on Wednesday were Mr. Devidas Gandhi. Editor of the “Hindustan Times/’ who attended the half-yearly meeting of Reuters. Par. N. Krishnamurthy, head of the Department of Surgery, Stanley Medical College, Madras, who had been for higher studies in surgery in the U.S., Great Britain and Europe, and Mr. Ramachandran Shetty, President ,of the Mysore State Mazdoor Sabha, who attended the World Labour Conference in London.Bareilly ’Quake ShocksBAREILLY, February 1*. Two earthquake shocks of severe intensity were felt at Bareilly shortly after midnight.The first shock was felt at 19 minutes past midnight. The second shock, which was more severe than the first, rocked houses and rattled windows and doors.—P.T.I.Saugor ClashFrom Our Own CorrespondentJUBBULPORE, February 1; One person was killed and six were injured in a minor clash at Saugor on Sunday. It is reported that cow-slaughter by some butchers was the cause of the incident. About 12 per* sons have been arrested, so far.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿LIMITING POWERS OF NEPALI KINGThe Times of India (1861-current); May 29, 1956; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9LIMITING POWERS OF NEPALI KING Parishad PolicyKHATMANDU, May 27: Mr.Ram Hari Sharma, General Secretary of the ruling Praja Parishad, told a press conference yesterday that his party stood for limiting the powers of the Nepalese King. <“Our party envisages a constitutional monarch with limited powers, he said.Mr. Sharma said his party was ready to explore the possibilities of electoral alliances with other democratic parties like the Nepali Congress and the Nepali National Congress, but he dismissed outright any possibility of any understanding with the Gorkha Parishad.Discussing foreign affairs, he said the Parishad wanted diplomatic relation with a country “when it will pay us. He said this was the basic principle oh which Nepal’s foreign relations should1 be based.	, !, He described Nepal’s relations with India as very - special. It wbuld continue to be so in future.—P.T.I.Barhanpur BanThe Times of India New* Service SHOLAPUR, May 28:	TheDistrict Magistrate of Sholapur has banned assemblies of more than five persons and-the carrying of lethal weapons for a month in the village of .Barhanpur, Akalkot talukk. |The ban, which has been enforced under Section 144, Cr. P.C-, follows a dispute concerning a holy place in the village.Sholapur Civic Board“The Times of India” News Service SHOLAPUR, May 28:	Freshelections to all the seats of the Sholapur Municipal Board will be held-on June 20.\. The, seats became vacant following the resignation of all 15 councillors on the issue of Sam-yukta Maharashtra.June 1 is the last, date for filing nomination papers.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Meerut tense, one fatally stabbedThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Aug 13, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 8Meerut tense, one fatally stabbedThe* Times of India News ServiceMEERUT, August 12: Tension gripped the trouble-prone localities of jthe walled city late last evening,-following a clash, between members of two communities inwhichone person was stabbed to death in the thickly-populated Baniya Fada locality. Three others were critically injured. ;/ V .y ' i According to the police, MrChand PrakashRastogi, 46,of BaniyaPada yvas fotally .stabbed by members of another community at 5 p.m. After one Mr Yuatif of Saha Nathan, who wa8goingon,hismotorcycle,sus-i tained a bullet injury; His condition is reported to be critical . The second, incident occulted in the8amelocalityhalf.an hourlater when two.perion*, Mr Ashol^ 48, and Mr Vijay;43, were stabbed again by : miscreants. \	: ./. Police iotlrces said brick-batting between members of the two cpm-munities was also reported from several sensitive localities ip the walledCity.	'Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿9 kids burnt alive in U.P.The Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Dec 15, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of Indiapg. 19 kids burnt alive in U.P.The Times of India News ServiceLUCKNOW, December 14.CURFEW was imposed on Jahagirpur town in Bulandshahr district following the death of 11 people including nine children in communal violence as also in six police stations of Agra district following an incident of stabbing there yesterday.Thus the number of districts placed under curfew so far has gone up to eight and the toll in the current spell of rioting to 97 in Uttar Pradesh.No untoward incident was reported from Kanpur and Aligarh,which witnessed the worst-ever riots a few days ago.An official spokesman of the home department claimed that the situation in the state was under control and added that there were signs of improvement in the riot-affected districts.	.He said that in Jahagirpur (Bulandshahr district), two women and nine children died of suffocation when their house was set on fire after bolting it from outside by some miscreants yesterday.The official said that earlier some students of Jahagirpur inter-college indulged in arson and set many shops on fire. As many as 20 have been rounded up in connection with the incident. The situation was tense but under control there, he claimed.In Agra, three persons were injuredin various incidents of communal violence that were sparked off by a dispute between two communities over the taking out of a procession of “asthi kalas (urns containing ashes) of the “kar sevaks” killed in police firing in Ayodhya on October 30 andi November 2.While two persons sustained knife injuries at Tajganj, another was injured in stone-throwing at Loha Mandi.The night passed off peacefully in Etah district with no untoward incident reported from any part of it during the last 24 hours. In view of the improvement in the situation, curfew had been relaxed there from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.UNI adds: The Prime Minister, Mr Chandra Shekhar, today held an hour-long meeting with the Uttar Pradesh chief minister, Mr Maulayam Singh Yadav, and other senior officials at the Raj Bhavan here on the prevailing law and order situation in the state.The sluggish economic development and ways to restore communal harmony in different parts of the state that are rocked with riots were discussed at the meeting.The Union petroleum and chemical minister, Mr S.P. Malviya, the general secretary of Janata Dal (S), MrOm Prakash Chautala and the former chief minister, Mr N.D. Tiwari, were also present at the meeting.The Prime Minister, who is on a day’s visit to U.P. drove to Raj Bhavan straight from the airport.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Gujarat violence unabatedThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Apr 16, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9The Times of India News ServiceAHMEDABAD, April 15.THE police opened 80 rounds of fire early this morning to quell mobs indulging in stone throwing, arson and looting in Dhundara village, near the temple town of Dakore, about 105 km from here.At least six persons were injured, including two seriously, and nearly 20 houses were set on fire following which the police imposed an indefinite curfew in the village. A number of shots were also fired from private fire-arms in which one woman was reported to have been injured. Two seriously injured persons in the police firing were shifted to the SSG Hospital at Baroda and others were treated at Dakore hospital.In Dakore town last night, some miscreants set ablaze a mdtor-cycle, four cycles and four wooden cabins.This is the third major incident of violence in the riot-hit Kaira district. Immediately after this incident, another town in the district, Thasara, witnessed rioting, which forced the police to open fire killing two persons and injuring one person.Two more persons were killed in Baroda city following a clash between two groups of people and the police firing. All these incidents took plae following the Vishva Hindu Parishad taking out processions in different parts of the state.The Central government has decidedto send a special team, headed by th< Union cabinet secretary, Mr B. G Dcshmukh, to Gujarat, Mr Dcshmukl is scheduled to arrive in Gandhinagai by Saturday morning. Mr Dcshmukl along with the state chief secretary, Mi R. V. Chandramauli, will visit Virpui and other riot-hit areas in Kaira Dis trict.	'Today’s incident in the village begar at round 4 a.m. when more than 4,00C people attacked the village and started burning houses. Many local resident: also joined hands with outsiders and systematically burnt down man> houses.MEERUT TOLL 6 (TOINS froir Lucknow): The U.P. government hac directed the authorities in sensitiv< districts to maintain a constant watcl on the situation as the death roll ir communal violence in Meerut city rost to six on Wednesday.Though the principal home sec retary, Mr Mata Prasad, maintained this evening that no untoward incident had been reported from anywhere ir the state except from Meerut since Iasi evening, reliable reports pouring ir here indicated that tension had spread in the Ayodhya township in Faizabad district following an act of arson.Mr Prasad said that except in Meerut city, the observance of Shab-e-Barat and celebrations to mark the 96th birth anniversary of Dr Ambedkar passed ofl peacefully throughout the state yesterday. The Baisakhi processions were also taken out with usual gaeity.Nearly 50 shops big and small in-cluding “khokhas” (in connection with the Nauchandi mela) were set on fire, according to official reports here.Official reports said that the trouble followed the gutting of a firewood shop which took place when a group of persons was objecting to the playing of songs on loudspeakers at a function.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Ahmedabad mob gassed many heldOur Staff CorrespondentThe Times of India (1861-current); Jan 12, 1982; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Ahme dab ad mo b gassed, many heldBy Our Staff CorrespondentAHMEDABAD, January 11.yesterday continued without any ' relaxation.THE police burst 50 tear-gas shells and fired	six roundsto disperse a mob hurling stones on policemen and passing vehicles early ’ this morning in the curfew-bound area of Dariapur and parts of Kalupur.No curfew passes were issued today and all those which were issued yesterday were declared invalid by an order of the city police commissioner.In Changiskhan Pole in Kalupur, ft young man, Deepak, was fatally stabbed. Sporadic violence was also witnessed in Dandiawad and Dhabgar-wad in Dariapur.CURFEW CONTINUESA police constable at the Dariapur police station and a sub-inspector of Shaherkotda police station	receivedinjuries when they came	under aheavy barrage of brickbats.Twenty-one persons have so far been arrested in connection with today’s violence while 200 anti-social elements were detained as a precautionary measure.The state home minister, Mr. Pra-bodh Raval, said all precautionary measures were being taken to prevent escalation of the violence which had broken out last night following a quarrel over a kite-flying incident in Dariapur.The police, who fired six rounds today, had fired one round in' the air late last night in Naginapole area of Dariapur where armob hurled burning rags, soda water bottles and brickbats on the policy.An indefinite curfew, which was clamped in the areas falling under the ■ Dariapur police station and several . parts of the adjoining Kalupur locality> Though “under complete control”, the situation continued to be tense in Dariapur and Kalupur, according to police sources.Intensive patrolling by SRP and city police was being done in the affected areas.In the clash yesterday, eight to ten people received injuries inflicted with lethal weapons.A city bus was stopped last mght and both its crew and passengers were assaulted. One of the passengers it-ccived knife wounds, according to the police.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿BADAUN QUIET AFTER RIOTS: 4 KILLED & 19 HURTThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jun 30, 1953; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9BADAUN QUIET , AFTER RIOTS 4 Killed & 19 HurtBADAUN, June 29: Badaun 1$ reported to be quiet tpday after the incidents on Friday and Saturday' last when clashes occurred between refugees and members of a minority community;The total , number of casual-ities in the incidents so far is four killed and 19 injured, three seriously. 'Forty-nine persons have been arrested and two provincial armed constabulary platoons are helping the local police to maintain order: .	.Mr. Muzaffar Hussain, Deputy Minister, for Home, visited Badaun yesterday to study the | situation.—P.T:I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Football fan dies in police firingThe Times of India (J86J-current); Oct 8, 1967; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Football fan dies in police firing“The Times of India” News Serric#SFlNAGAR, 'October 7.ONE person was killed and several others were: injured here today .when the police fired on a viplent mob of football fans outside the “Sports, Stadium.Trouble, started when the North Zone semi-final football match between Punjab University an,d Jammu and • Kashmir University teams was in progress.	.Supporters of the Kashmir team shouted slogans,when it scofed the first goal. When the. Punjab team equalised, its supporters, raised counter-slogans.Soon the Punjab team scored another goal when its supporters shouted slogans again. Supporters of the Kashmir team raised counter-slogans.This was followed by a clash between ' the rival groups, They threw stones and also fought with chairs.Match' abandonedThe clashing groups ran, out of the stadium when the police arrived. On hearing of the clash, a mob gathered outside the stadium and started throwing stones. ‘	,Some policemen were reported to have been hit by the stones. The police fired- a few shots in ^the air but to no avail. The police then fired to disperse the violent crowd. 'The football match was abandoned.It has been decided to arrange to escort the visiting teams up. to Jammu-.Tear-gas to disperse mob in JammuJAMMU, October 7: The police used tear-gas to disperse: an unruly stonethrowing crowd, which set fire to the century-old gate of Shri Ranbir High School at Parade Grounds here,An all-India' Urdu poetical sympo- . sium was being organised by the State Government at the school in connection with the Jammu festival.The historic gate was completely gutted before the fire engines could arrive.—P.T.I.	‘Bombay tie-up with Ceylon industry“The Times of India” News ServiceNEW DELHI, October 7 :The Government of India has permitted a ■Bombay firm to collaborate with a company in Ceylon for the manufacture of PVC leather-cloth. The Indian firm will provide machinery, machine tools, technical assistance, etc. towards its share capital.Another Bombay company is to set up a construction company in Zambia.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Imam held, curfew in Delhi areasThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jul 5, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1The Times of India News ServiceNEW DELHI, July 4.CURFEW was clamped on the Delhi walled city areas this evening following the detention of the Shahi Imam of Jama Masjid in Moradnagar, en route to Meerut, and “isolated” stabbing incidents in Old Delhi,Police officials clarified that th( two stabbing incidents and the fin at a junk dealer’s yard were no' “communal incidents”, but in ar atmosphere surcharged with ten' sion these served to inflamepassions. -	•An additional force was rushed t( the walled city as tension welled up ir the area after the return of the Shah Imam, Syed Abdullah Bukhari, and hii companions from Moradanager, when a mob had hurled stones at them. Old Delhi has. not been completednormal since May 19 when communal riots erupted, and the imposition of night curfew between 11.00 p.m. and5.00	a.m. continues.Today, however, curfew was clamped on the disturbed areas at 7.00 p.m., with the authorities insisting that it would be lifted tomorrow morning if the situation was normal. Police vehicles fitted with megaphones went around the streets' announcing the curfew and asking people to remain indoors.The entire area covered by the Jama Masjid, Chandni Chowk, Hauz Qazi, Kamla Market and Town Hall Police stations is under “indefinite curfew.” In addition, parts of the Lahori Gate area are also curfew-bound.The Shahi Imam and other Muslim leaders had left for riot-tom Meerut at about 8.00 a.m. today. According to a spokesman, the cavalcade of six careand a jeep was stopped on the Delhi Uttar Pradesh boundary and twiceagain On the Delhi-Meerut road. The entourage managed to drive ahead, after brief arguments.	_At Muradnagar, however, the police insisted that the Shahi Imam’s entry had been banned in the area and, according to reports, detained him and others at the police station for some time, charging them with assaulting some policemen.Reports say that a mob which had collected at the spot hurled stones at the Shahi Imam’s companions and also allegedly attacked them with lathis. There were also scuffles with the police, and six people were hurt A Doordarshan cameraman was injured and his equipment damaged in the .clash, according to the reports.The entourage to the Jama Masjid around 12.30 p.m. and traders began downing the shutters to protest against the attack on the Imam-led team to Meerut. Within a couple df hours, a large number of shops in the walled city were closed voluntarily. ’	!Wh?t added to the tension was the stabbing in the Jama Masjid area and' at Qasim Jan in the Hauz Qazi area.According to the police, a group of men who wanted a ride in a rickshaw stabbed the passenger who was in it; The other stabbing victim told the police.thOt someone tripped him and then stabbed him.MEERUT PEACEFUL (PTI from Meerut): No untoward incidents were reported from any part of the city as curfew was relaxed in two spells in different areas.	.While curfew was relaxed from 10.00 a.m. to 12.00 p.m. in Lisari Gate, Transport Nagar, Delhi Gate and Civil Lines areas, in Kotwali, Brahampuri and Nauchandi police circle it was relaxed from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. .A ten-year-old boy who was stabbed and thrown into a well yesterday, died today. With this, the death toll in the fresh outbreak of violence in Meerut since Sunday last, rose to seven.Mr Bakshi described the situation in Meerut as improving but. requiring strict watch.	.BARODA CALM (TOINS from Baroda): The day passed off peacefully in the city and there were no untoward incidents when curfew was relaxed for two hours in the trouble-prone areas.The toll following the current outbreak of violence on June 27 is now eight — five people died by stabbing and three in the police firing. In all, 167 people have been arrested.UNI adds: Curfew was relaxed for 11 hours in the Raopura and Kareligaug areas. It was relaxed for four hours it} different phases within the Wadi and city police station limits.	,Only women and children were allowed to come out for essential purchases in the Wadi and city police station areas, official sources said.More than 20 persons were detained in connection with a case of attempted arson in the Nagarwada area.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿22 killed, 250 hurt in U.P. riotsThe Times of India (J86J-current); Mar 11, 1971; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 1322 killed, 250 hurt in U.P. riotsLUCKNOW. March 10:	Twenly-tvvo people were killed and nearly 250 injured in ihe recent disturbances at Allahabad, Aligarh and .Moradabad.Giving this information at a press conference, the U.P. Home Minister,Mr. Virendra Verma. said that the situation in all those places was under control. Over 850 people had been arrested. Besides there had been minor disturbances in Elab. Mathura,Gorakhpur. Meerut and Pratapgarh districts on polling days.Mr. Verma said that a judicial inquiry had been ordered in respect of Aligarh ' riots. The disturbances were pre-planned but Ihe Slate intelligence had tailed to get any information about the plan.Action had been taken against the district magistrate and the senior superintendent of police. Ailgarb and they, had been suspended for “their failure to “control'’ the situation.—P.T.I.Absconding CPM leader held“The Times of India,” News ServiceDARJEELING. March 10: Souren Bose. CPM leader and a .member of the party’s centra! committee; who was absconding since 1968, was arrested in Calcutta on Monday, according to official information received here.Bose, who was defeated in the 1967 Assembly election in the Sili-gurilKursaong constituency, was reported to be a close associate of Kanu Sanyal and allegedly took a leading part in directing the extremist activities in Naxalbari in 1967.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Gujarat communal riots follow set patternASHRAF SAYEDThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 19, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 20Bv ASHRAF SAYEDThe Times of India News Service AHMEDABAD. September 1&.Bv ASHRAF SAYED The Times of India News Service AHMED ABAD. September 1&.communal ciasnes nave oeen reported from Mehsana, Sabarkantha, Ahmedabad, Kaira and Panchmahals districts following systematiccommunal ciasnes nave oeen reported from Mehsana, Sabarkantha, Ahmedabad, Kaira and Panchmahals districts following systematicTHE sudden spurt in communal violence in small towns and villages of Gujarat in the last few days has exposed the designs of some known communal organisations, out to achieve petty political goals.rumour-niongcnng oy interestedparties during the last week.Though the state administration has tried to underplay the seriousness of the incidents by describing them as “isolated” and “insignificant”, a close scrutiny of these incidents reveals a set pattern.It seems that the Bharatiya Janata Party and its front organisations want to gauge the public mood on how much the Hindu card can be played in the next electoral contest. The recent incidents of communal violence indicate that these organisations have fairly succeeded in arousing the religious sentiments of the people.GANG WARFor example, a gang war between the dons of ttvo criminal outfits, which led to the murder of a youth in the Kheralu town in Mehsana district, was given a communal twist by motivated propaganda, leading to large-scale violence.In the communal frenzy, one person was stabbed to death and seven others were injured. The police fired six rounds to. control the situation, but only after much damage was done to private property.The incident, which was a sequel to an earlier murder of a rival gang leader, .was systematically utilised by interested parties to fan the fires of communal hatred in nearby villages.If the police intelligence sources are to be believed, volunteers of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad moved from village to village, arousing the sentiments of the people in the name of the Ram Janmabhoomi issue. ' Within two days of the Kheraluincident, violence broke out on September 12 at Malpur, Ghorisana, Otalpur, Kuda and Sidhpur villages of Kheralu taluka in Mehsana district. As many as 17 shops were looted and set on fire and eight people got injured.GANESH PROCESSION Similarly, the first-ever lord Ganesh procession in Kanajari village of Kaira district provided the background for violence. The police fired seven rounds to disperse violent mobs.Again group clashes also took place on September 13 and September 15 at Dhandhuka towrvin Ahmedabad district and Meghraj town in Sabarkantha district, respectively, in connection with the bandh call given by the Bharatiya Janata Party, the VHP and the Shiv Sena to mark the foundation laying ceremony of the Ram Janmabhoomi temple.In a span of six days, violence resulted in the death of one person and injuries to 30 others. As many as 21 shops were looted by mobs, forcing the police to open fire 14 rounds.During 1985 and 1987 the communal riots were mostly confined to big cities and towns like Ahmedabad, Baroda, Godhra, Bharuch, Palanpur and Wajikaner.The pattern this time is perceptibly changing. Most of the violent incidents are confined to the rural areas.It is practically impossible for the law inforcing agencies to provide protection to the people in the far-flung rural areas.Invariably, the police could reach the affected villages only after the damage had already been done by miscreants. Expectedly such isolated but well planned incidents have created a sense of insecurity among the people.The Amarsinh Chaudhary ministry cannot afford to ignore the police intelligence reports that some communal organisations are now bent upon whipping up the communal-feelings of the people on the Rani ' Janmabhoomi issue.	-As it can be made an election issue, the BJP and its front organisations are trying their best to mobilisepublic opinion on it. In the past also, the BJP had gained political strength, after communal violence 'in., Ahmedabad, where it captured the;j city civic body with a thumping,! majority.	■;*On the other hand a rank com** munalist and known bootlegged Abdul Latif Abdul Vahab Shaikh, could win from five wards on the sympathy of the Muslims.	v.\The BJP has also injected a new ! militancy among its front organisa!> tions like the Bharatiya Kisan Sangfr! and the VHP. This betame evident at-' the silver jubilee celebration function,' of the Sabar dairy held at Himatnagar on September 15.HOSTILE CROWD A hostile crowd of nearly 2O,0OQ*. farmers, assembled on the occasion^ not only hooted and abused the chief* minister, Mr Amarsinh Chaudhary^ but also threw all kinds of missiles at-? the dais, forcing the organisers t<f abandon the function mid-way.The chief minsiter was earlier assured by 'a delegation of farmers that they would behave at the function^ Moreover, the chief minister haf given several concessions to farmers'! in the past, which had cost the stat& exchequer more than Rs 200 crores$ And this time also, he has offered' to consider all their demands, including early payment of crop insurance dues and review Of the irrigation-rates.But the Himatnagar episode was*» staged to warn the state adminis^ tration and the Congress party of th$< shape of things to come. Not satisfied' with the flexing of muscles at Himd-tnagar, the BKS has now organised a; massive rally on September 19 to “gherao” the state assembly to prov^ that the Congress is anti-farmer and* the BJP is the only organisation^ fighting for the cause of agriculturist^ in the state. .	_	,tj, However, on the two threats,<the^ communal one can be potentially the most troublesome. The farmers’ issue can be debated and sorted out either through negotiations or conceding* some of their demands, but com%i munal disturbances in the rural areas?! can only be ignored at the cost of! grave consequences.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew continues in GodhraThe Times of India (J86J-current); Dec 1, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of Indiapg. 16Curfew continuesinGodhraAHMEDABAD, Nov. 30 (PTI): Indefinite curfew remained in force in Godhra town 6f Panchmahal district in Gujarat, where five persons were stabbed to death and* half a dozen injured in violence yesterday.Among those stabbed were three teachers, including two women teachers, the police said, adding that the motive behind it was not known.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Varanasi blast claims 2 moreThe Times of India (J86J-current); Nov 12, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 13Varanasi blast claims 2 moreVARANASI, Nov. 11: The situation in Varanasi city was, by and large, “peaceful” without any major incident reported from any part of the city during the curfew relaxation period today), reportsThe toll, however, mounited to Jight with the deaths of two seriously injured persons at the 5SPG hosnital	IReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿I Ind Advt4 cops suspended over Surat riotsThe Times of India (1861-current); Dec 25, 1992; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 64 cops suspended over Surat riotsAHMEDABAD, Dec. 24 (PTI).THE Gujarat government has suspended four police officers for ‘negligence’ of duty during the riots in Surat following the Ayodhya developments, an official spokesman said here today.1 They are police inspector of Varachcha police station, Mr M. L. Rathod, inspector, Udhna police station, Mr B. K. Dodia and two police sub-inspectors of the Chowk Bazar police station, Mr R. G. Jadeja and Mr A. K. Gadhvi.The government was also contemplating strict action against the police officers who did not take decision on time to deal with the law and order situation, the spokesman added.Meanwhile, two incidents of rioting were reported from Saraspur and Kagdapith localities ( though the situation in the curfew :	bound areas of the walled city was! under control, the police said.:	One each company of the Ra:	jasthan armed constabulary (RAC)has been deployed at Tonk and Malpura after the withdrawal of army which was called out following the riots, an official spokesman ■ said here today, reports PT1 from I Jaipur.A police station has also been created at Malpura, which wit, nessed the worst bloody riots after > Jaipur in Rajasthan claiming 24 f lives after December 8, he said, i In another report, forty-seven i more activists of the banned or-| ganisations have been arrested : since yesterday in Rajasthan raising the number of arrests to 1506 so far.TOINS adds from Ahmedabad:The death toll in the recent violence in the state rose to 291 last night when three persons were killed and 23 injured in police firing, stabbing and stone throwing in Ahmedabad.With this the toll in the violence in Ahmedabad rose to 58. The army moved in all the affected areas of the city and carried out intensive patrolling.The situation in Surat and Baroda cities and 17 other towns inthe state remained peaceful. Night curfew in the towns however continued.Large scale violence broke out late last night at Kamdar Maidan, a predominantly labour-dominated area of Gomtipur in Ahmedabad. Acid bulbs, bombs, soda water bottles and swords were freely used by the rioting mobs. At least six bomb explosions occurred in the residential localities at Gomtipur.The mobs set on fire 14 houses and three shops and indulged in heavy stone-throwing. The police fired 40 rounds and lobbed 30 teargas shells to disperse the clashing groups. One person was killed in police firing.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew clamped in Gujarat townThe Times of India (1861-current); Apr 21, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Curfew clamped in Gujarat townAHMEDABAD, April 20 (PTI): An indefinite curfew was clamped inKhambhat town of Kheda district today following outbreak of fresh viol* ence.The curfew was imposed at 11.15 a.m., following two incidents of brickbatting and three of arson this morning, according to official information received from Nadiad town tonight.	'The district collector, Mr Ravi Sax* ena, has issued shoot-at-sight orders to check arson incidents, an official spokesman said on phone.At least 11 shops were set afire in Ahmedabadi Bazar area of the curfew-bound Nadiad town this morning.Meanwhile, the indefinite curfew imposed in Nadiad yesterday, continued today.‘Express’ editor quitsNEW DELHI, April 20 (UNI): Mr Suman Dubey has resigned as editor of The Indian Express.Mr Dubey has been the editor of the paper since July 1986.When contacted, Mr Dubey said he had not made any statement about the reasons for his resignation, nor did he intend to make one.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿FOOD PARCELS FOR ASSAMThe Times of India (J86J-current); Sep 27, 1950; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 7FOOD PARCELS FOR ASSAM‘CARE’ Relief Work BeginsNEW DELHI, September 26: The token presentation of a food parcel worth j.0 dollars to the Prime ivimister, Pandit Nehru, here today was the ceremonial initiation of relief work in India by the CARE organisation—Co-operative for American Remittances to Europe and Asia.Mr. Mulvin T. Johnson, Chief of the CARE organisation in India, said tha.t food parcels wbrth 1,000 dollars were being rushed to earthquake sufferers in Assam and the first consignment of 100 parcels had arrived in Bombay.His organisation would soon distribute to displaced persons J0C ploughs specially designed to enable mechanised tillage of small holdings Mr. Johnson said.The food parcels were 32% lbs each and consisted of long-graiuec rice, milk powder, dried peas anc lentils, sugar, flour hard candy anc laundry soap, Mr. Johnson said anc added that the CARE organisatior had made various presentations oi books to different educational institutions in India.Pandit Nehru handed the toker parcel back to Mr. Johnson and requested him to send it to Assam. He expressed the hope that arrangements for relief to flood-stricken Kashmir would also be made sooii by the organisation.“We had far more than our proper share of natural calamities” this year. Pandit Nehru said.—U.P.I.RICE SALE BY U. P. TO MADRAS “No Profits Made”MADRAS, September 26: Mr. M Thirumala Rao, Deputy Minister foi Food, Government of India, at s press conference here denied that the Uttar Pradesh Government hac made any profit out of the sale oJ rice at high prices to Madras StateThe U. P. Government, he said had only bought the surplus rice a1 the prevailing market price in Uttai Pradesh and exported it. Different conditions of production, in different areas, made some difference ir prices Inevitable, but if the 7yst«ir of controls in U. P; was absolutely tight and prices were clamped down there might be some reduction it prices, he added.—P.T.I.[ Clash Near Lucknowj SAHARANPUR, September 26: •Seven persons were injured on Sunday, in, a communal clash in Bhan-sraon village in the Fatehpur police station circle of Lucknow district.The clash, it is learnt, followed the report of cow-slaughter in the village. The police brought the situation under control immediately.Twenty-one arrests were made.— P.T.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Ranchi riot toll is 26The Times of India (J86J-current); Aug 25, 1967; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1PATNA, August 24: Eleven more people who were injured in the Ranchi language riots on Tuesday died last night bringing' the death-toll to 2b. according to an official report received here today. .The curfew imposed in Ranchi town on Tuesday evening has again been extended till 8 a.m, tomorrow, according to an official report received here today. ,The town remained quiet except for some cases of arson reported during curfew hours yesterday.Military and police patrolling is continuing in all the 28 sectors.One army man died accidentally at Ranchi yesterday while cleaning his rifle. Official sources said it had nothing to do with the disturbances.Hundreds of, school-going teenagers today took out an anti-Urdu procession violating the prohibitory order.The- processionists,-.- however, disper--sed peacefully after parading the1 streets for sometime.	./.Meanwhile the district1 ‘magistrates, of the 17 districts of Bihar have been directed by the State Government to prevent the taking out of any procession either in favour or against the introduction of Urdu as the second official language of the State.Mr. Thakur Prasad, president, Bihar State Jan Sangh, attributed Tuesday’s disturbances in Ranchi to the presence of “Pakistani and Chinese agents” who were out to disturb the rrtf State.—U.N.I. and P.T.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿2 more die in Bharuch clashesThe Times of India (1861-current); May 20, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 12 more die inBharuch clashesBHARUCH, May 19 (UNI): Two more persons were stabbed to death and five others suffered stab injuries in renewed group clashes last night in this curfew-bound south Gujarat city, the police said.The toll in the three-day violence has risen to five. At least eight houses have been set on fire by the mob.A large number of lethal weapons including swords and knives were recovered in the massive combing operations launched by the police today.The district collector, Mr S. R. Rao, said 168 were arrested in connection with various offences. The State Reserve Police continued their intensive patrolling of the sensitive areas.Meanwhile the state director general of police, Mr Man Mohansingh, today rushed to the city to supervise law and order arrangements. Mr Rao clarified that the violence suddenly erupted in the city after a boy had entered a place of worship with his shoes on to bring out a ball which had gone inside while playing cricket in the street.Nine TN pilgrims die in mishapMANGALORE, May 19 (UNI): Nine pilgrims from Tamil Nadu, including seven women, were killed instantly and 32 others injured when a private bus in which they were travelling rolled into a ditch at Guthiger, in Dakshina Kannada district, today.The police said the pilgrims were on their way to Mysore from Subramanya in'the same district.The bus belonged to a private tourist operator at Erode in Tamil Nadu.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Bangalore firing to quell riotersThe Times of India (J86J-current); Mar 12, 1984; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Bangalore firing to quell riotersBy Our Special CorrespondentBANGALORE, March 11: The police opened lire on Old Poor House Road in the trouble-tom Shivajinagir area here this evening, following which two persons with bullet injuries were rushed to hospital.The tiring came at the end of a day-long battle between mobs protesting against the alleged death of 38-year-old man in a police lock-up.Mr. C. K. Jatfer Sharief, Union minister of state for railways, and Mr. S. M. Yahya, finance minister in the previous Gundu Rao. cabinet, who have toured the area, have demanded a judicial inquiry into the disturbances..The police explanation is that the men figured'in the “rowdy list” and was arrested in a theft case. He had resisted his arrest but was overpowered and taken to the lock-up where he complained of chest pain. He was removed to a hospital where he died.	/Sixty-five, policemen, including Mr. P. G. Halarankar, police commissioner, were injured. He was treated by a doctor in the police station and he continued to be on duty. Some 30 people have been rounded up.New Pak body for freeing KashmirISLAMABAD, March 11 (AP): A former army general was named today to head a new organisation that will press for independence of Kashmir, over which Pakistan and India have gone to war twice.Lt.-Gen. F. A. Chishti, mastermind of the 1977 coup that brought the martial law president, Gen. Zia-ul-Haq to power, was nominated to head the Kashmir Liberation Organisation (KLO), its founders told a news conference.He was Kashmir affairs minister until Gen. Zia dashed his presidential ambitions.A KLO spokesman told reporters the group was formed because of United Nations ineffectiveness in resolving the 37-year dispute that keeps Indo-Pakistan relations simmering.A U.N. military observer group was formed to patrol Kashmir’s borders, in the foothills of the Himalayas. until its status is decided by plebiscite.	.40 officers held, Page 9Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Clashes erupt in BhagalpurThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Aug 13, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 17V Than of India New* ServiceBHAGALPUR, August 12.ORE than six government.vehicles were damaged and ‘	‘ f peoplean unknown number ol injured in communal violence today in the local Parvatti Muhalla of thetown.An irate mob belonging to One community looted two shops belonging to people of another community. .. At a hastily-arranged press meet, the, district magistrate, Mr Arun Jha, stud that so fiur noarrests had been made and utmost precaution was being taken to prevent any deterioration in the situation. “The situation is very volatile,” he added.Unconfirmed reports said that the police fired four rounds to disperse the irate mob, while rioters themselves had fired one round and used sharp weapons against each other.Prohibitory orders under section 144 Cr PC have been imposed on die entire town. According to the district magistrate, the town has been divided into five zones each under a magistrate. Besides, day-long patrolling Of the .town has also been ordered.. The incident occurred around 9 a.m. when a religious procession was stoned by unidentified people from roof tops in the Parvatti Muhalla. Observers alleged that thecessionists were also fired at from the roof tops near the Bishaharithan in the area.The administration had been informed about the tension in the area on Thursday afternoon. The organisers of a religious ceremony at Bishaharithan had shouted slogans against the district police and civil administration officials when they had gone to the spot to clear encroachments on the road.New Delhi (PH): Delhi police pickets on Saturday kept a strict vigilin the sensitive walled city areas here as a preventive measure, following Friday's dashes in MeerutOne person had been stabbed to death in the clashes ip MeerutMeanwhile, the Janata Dal leader^ Mr V. P. Singh, appealed to the people to remain calm and not be provoked by the “latest bout of inspired violence” in Meerut(Meerut Tense, Page 8)pro-Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿BROKEN RICE EXPORTS: M. P. SEEKS CENTRAL PERMISSION THE TIMES OF INDIAThe Times of India (J86J-current); Sep 26, 1961; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 7BROKEN RICE EXPORTSM. P. Seeks Central PermissionThe Times of India” News ServiceBHOPAL, September 25: The Government of Madhya Pradesh has sought the permission of the Union Government to export 9,000 tons of broken rice to Bihar. West Bengal.Mysore and Kerala.The Food Minister (Mr. A. Q.Siddique, told the State Vidhan Sabha today in reply to a calling attention motion by Mr. Ramkumar Agarwal that since consumption of broken rice was negligible in the State, last year an aggregate of 19,850 tons was exported to West Bengal and Bombay.The Minister said that since the lifting of mill-producqd broken rice had not been satisfactory the State Government had issued instructions for the export of 4,000 tons to West Bengal and Bihar. Another 5,000 tons were proposed to be exported to Bihar, West Bengal. Mysore and Kerala.COMMUNAL CLASHThe Deputy Home Minister, Mr.Narsinghrao Dikshit, earlier told the House that 15 persons were injured, four of them seriously, in a communal clash on September 21 in Chhatar village in Udaipur District on the occasion of the Dol Gyaras festival,He was speaking on an adjournment motion- tabled by Mr. V. S.Pradhan, Hindu Mahasabha. Mr.Dikshit said on September 22 that there was a hartal in Udaipur. The situation was now under control. The police had arrested 17 persons and were making investigations.The Speaker, Mr. Kunjilal Dube, disallowed the motion after hearing the Government statement.See Page 11Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Tear Gas Used To Disperse Crowd: DISTURBANCES IN DELHIThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jan 1, 1953; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1Tear Gas Used To Disperse Crowddisturbances inDELHINEW DELHI, Dec. 31. Police used tear gas to disperse a procession taken out by Jan Sangh volunteers here this afternoon to protest against the police firing on Praja 'Parishad workers in Sunderbani in Jammu State on Sunday.	.The processionists, who numbered 300, wanted to hold a public meeting in the Hauz Kazi area, a busy business centre in Old Delhi, in defiance of the ban against holding of public meetings enforced there.When the crowd became unruly and tried to break the police cordon in the area the Additional District Magistrate on duty ordered the use of tear gas.The police rounded up 63 persons from the area for obstructing traffic. Forty-two of them were later let off.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew Follows Stabbing Cases In Border TownThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jan 10, 1964; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Curfew Follows Stubbing Cases In Border TownCALCUTTA, January 9.ADUSK-TO-DAWN curfew was imposed today on the subdivisional town of Bongaon (24-Parganas) bordering East Pakistan, 37 miles from here.This step was taken following some stray cases of stabbing and assault. The situation in the area is now said to be under control.Some persons received brickbat injuries in a number of stray incidents in Calcutta city and _ suburbs this evening. The police said that these incidents occurred following an attack by a crowd on a students’ procession organised in protest against the atrocities on the minority community in Khulna and other areas of East Pakistan. The miscreants disappeared on the arrival of the police. The situation was reported auiet everywhere late in the evening.— P.T.l.10 Indians RescuedMOSCOW, January 9: Ten Indians, including a girl, who were rescued from a drifting lifeboat in the Indian Ocean by the Soviet ship, “Tsymlyanskges”, on Tuesday are being given first' aid treatment aboard. .The boat’s occupants speak no European language. But by signs indicated that they drifted away from the Mal-dive Islands “a long time previously.” —Reuter.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿ARMY CALLED OUT AS BHIWANDI BURNS: AT LEAST 17 KILLED & OVER 100 INJURED IN RIOTINGFERNANDES, ALLWYN;Munshi, DebashishThe Times of India (1861-current); May 19, 1984; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg. 1A policeman takes aim at a group of desperados preparing to attack and kill fellow-citizens (right) as hundreds of ordinary men, women and children flee Bhiwandi (centre) and the police escort the wounded (right). (Photographs by WilliamCoutto and P. M. Shirodkar). (More pictures on page 9.)By ALLWYN FERNANDES & DEBASHISH MUNSHI BHIWANDI, May 18.'AN army batallion was rushed tonight to this town, 52 km from Bombay off the Bombay-Agra national highway, after an indefinite curfew imposed at 6 a.m. today failed to stop violence and arson. A second batallion has been sent to Thane town-Although government officials at Bombay said that eight persons had died in the violence so far, hospital sources in Bhiwandi said the toll was 17. At least another ilOO persons have been injured, some of them seriously.We counted seven bodies in the Bhiwandi municipal hospital and were ; told at the Thane civil hospital that : another seven had died there. The ; victims are widely dispersed — to hospitals in Thane (civil hospital),; Mulund ESIS hospital, government ^ hospitals at J.J., G.T. and St. Geo _ :’s . besides Bhiwandi itself. So it is not ’ possible to assess the actual number of those killed and injured.•When asked at 5 p.m. if the situation was under control, a top police official here replied; “I would not say go, not until the violence erupting now and then stops. One moment there is a lull, then there is trouble again.”He said although police reinforcements had begun coming in from 4 a.m., there were not enough forces to patrol an area 10 km by seven km. Unlike in 1970, when this powerloom town was last rocked by violence, the trouble this time is mainly confined to the outskirts where large slums and factories have sprung up.This was evident as we approached Bhiwandi from Thane. Crowds of people, including women and chi'd-ren, were fleeing the town barefoot with whatever meagre belongings they could pick up. Some of them hadbound their feet with cloth to protect them from the searing heat. Some of them had been walking for hours.‘‘Our huts have been razed. There is nothing left. We have been driven out”, they said. Smoke billowing from the town’s skyline in the distance testified to what they said. Bhiwandi town itself seemed sealed off — at this stage hot by the authorities against anti-social elements from outside but by members of one community. On the way there, we were stopped and warned not to go further. Two trucks, a car and three-wheeler lay burning as we approached. Finally, two of the group that has sealed off th<* town offered to “escort” us in. On the way out, too, we were stopped and- once stoned.	•	■ -Inside the town, we were witness for 40 minutes to repeated attempts by one group to set fire to houses and other establishments belonging to members of the other community. They .came in a hail of stones, set fire to what they could and retreated when a handful of SRP constables pointed their rifles at them. Those attacked tried to beat them off with stones and rods.A senior police officer at Niazm-pura police station was later seen telling his men that they would be penalised if they did not shoct rioters on sight. But the SR? men on the spot appeared handicapped by the absence of senior officers.The targets of violence in Kaneri naka were seen pleading with SRP constables to accompany them to where their establishments ahd homes were being attacked, literally pulling them by the hand to the trouble spot. Only then did the SRP men fire a few shots — almost casually, with no show of determination to drive away the marauders.About 4 p.m., DCP Joshi, who was at Nizampura police station, saw smoke billowing in the distance and rushed to Kaneri naka. He and other officers then ordered the SRP to open fire on rioters seen grouping and regrouping at some distance. But eventhen, the firing by the SRP con stables was painfully slow. By thij time they took aim and fired, mos t of the rioters had. got away to safety .Tension has been brewing in th;j town since the Shiv Jayanti procession this month, which was permitted afteir a lapse of 14 years. Ihe town had l witnessed a communal holocaust in 1969.The situation took a turn for the s worse following two recent incidents! — the alleged attack on a community' and their faith by Bal Thackeray in Bombay followed by the alleged l garlanding with chappals of his portrait by an MLA in Parbhani. This , as has already been reported, led tho Shiv Sena to order bandhs in different parts of Bombay over the pasi t three days. The tension generated b}( the events served as fuel to the simmering fire in Bhiwandi. ,Yesterday’s trouble started in Ghungatnagar over what can aptly be called the ‘battle of the flags.’1' One group that bad been celebrating a festival had festooned the town with its green coloured flag.Yesterday, this group tried to hoist its flags at Ghungatnagar (some said by removing a saffron flag of tho other group). There was resistance and a fracas, in which three persons were injured.The rest of the night was largely1 peaceful, except for some stone-throw ing incidents at Kacheripara. Police} forces from Thane were mobilised I and all was quiet. The Thane polices commissioner, Mr. D. Ramachandran camped in the town to ensure thall the peace was not disturbed.Trouble began erupting again aboult5	a.m. when large-scale arson, looting and stabbing were reported from the outskirts of Bhiwandi town. Panic: spread and residents started fleeing. Several zopadpattis were burnt, while s two firewood depots were set on fire..Curfew was imposed from 6 a.m. to 4 p.m. Later, it was extended tc>6	a.m. tomorrow and 250 arrests were 5 made as SRP forces were requisition ed. But by this time, Kaneri, Gauri -pada, Asbibi, Kalyan and the Bom-bay-Agra national highway had all been affected, with no traffic being allowed to go past Bhiwandi.Hutment colonies, godowns, power-looms, sheds, small-scale factories and even concrete. structures went up in flames. The Bhiwandi fire brigade, aided by _ tenders from Kalyan and Thane vainly tried to fight the infernos amidst the hit-and-run tactics of the mob.	.The trouble was reported to have subsided at night, but erupted again at 5 a.m. today. Curfew was then imposed, ST bus services to the town suspended, and Bombay University'sT.Y.B.A. and T.Y.B.Sc. examinations in the town postponed.One of us was held up in Thane for 90 minutes because the police insisted that it was “too risky” to go to Bhiwandi. Finally, he was escorted into Bhiwandi which had the appearance of a ghost town. Those who had not fled,- watched' cautiously from their homes as groups of youths armed with sticks, rods and reportedly, even swords, moved about ‘ in the narrow lanes and back alleys as they attempted to stir up trouble.There were road blocks at several places in the town and on the road in Bhiwandi itself. Several shops belonging to one community had been looted systematically while those belonging to the others were left untouched in some parts. The reverse was true in other parts of the town.Although members of the Bhiwandi peace committee went round the town trying to calm passions, things bad clearly got out .of,-.hand. Wild rumours circulated of attacks by .one group on the other. Doctors at the municipal hospital said that many of those injured had knife injuries or billlet wounds, many from country-made pistols.At the Thane civil hospital, there were seven dead and 92 undergoing treatment, some of them hovering between life and death. Among them was an SRP man whose arm had . been chopped off as he was returning after he had taken a little boy home on ; the orders of his officers. Many of i the victims were stabbed.Several huts in the Ambewadi area of Bhiwandi along the Nasik-AgTa Road which were razed during the violence that rocked the township on Friday.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.Steel-helmeted SRP personnel patrolling the lanes of Bhiwandi.A truck burning fnriotisly after it was set on tire by rioters in Bhiwandi.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Roits rock Delhi areaOur Staff CorrespondentThe Times of India (1861-current); Aug 16, 1980; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1By Our Staff CorrespondentNEW DELHI, August 15.AT LEAST two persons were ** killed and several injured in the Ballimaran area of the walled city today following a violent clash between two groups and the ensuing police bring.Indefinite curfew has been clamped on the surrounding areas, including Darya Gan]', Kamla Market, Turkman Gate, Abori Wate, Hauz Quaei and Kotwali. —.'wo adjacent areas, Sadar Bazar and Bara Hindu Rao, though not affected by this afternoon’s rioting, will also be put under curfew from 8 p.m. to 6 a.m. as a precautionary measure.The army will stage a flag march through the area to prevent any untoward incident. Four companies of the Border Security Force have been deployed in addition to the Delhi police.GRIM PICTUREAccording to the police, a, lathi-charge and teargas failed to quell the disturbance, following which they were forced to fire in the air.The scene of the rioting presented a grim picture of gutted shops, rubble, broken glass and bricks littered all over the deserted streets. The fire brigade, which employed about 26 tenders to control the numerous blazes within the inaccessible streets, were still extinguishing a number of small fires and searching for casu allies,	,According to Mr. P. S. Bhinder, police commissioner of Delhi, when the rioting first, broke out around2.00	p.m., he visited, the spot and appealed to the people, to avoid bloodshed and return home peacefully. The mob replied, “Ham marne ke liye ayen hen.” The entire area adjoining the Jama Masjid became the scene of a pitched battle between the mob and the police.According to eyewitnesses, the trouble arose when a flag*hofcting ^eeremony in Gali Paswan organised »y the Congress (I) was disturbed jby some youths who asked those gathered to wear black armbands. The intruders about 50 strong, reportedly raised slogans like ‘Tak-istan zindabad” and began hurling stones. The flag, it is alleged, was pulled down by the miscreants and tom.Both sides then began hurling brickbats at each other and some shops were set on fire as the mob moved into Ballimaran. The Hauz Quazi police inervened and according to eyewitnesses fired in the air. The firing was described as unprovoked by members of both the community.The rioting then shifted into the Narro Street, away from Chaudi Bazaar, towards Lahori Gate. About half way down residents reportedly refused to let the police pass. The mob fury turned against the police.Sabir Ahmed, 35, a rickshaw puller tvas reportedly hit by a bullet and died.Some policemen, clustered in tense groups at street entrances and in front )f burnt shops, said their firing was not unprovoked, They alleged that hey had difficulty in getting permis-Continued on Page 9 Column 4Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.Continued from Page 1 Column 2sion to fire at a time when* the rioting was at its peak.All along the winding street of Balimaran, the story seemed to be the same.Till late evening authorities including the lieut.-governor, Mr. Jagmohan,. were still at the trouble spot.The area was plastered with posters in Urdu and Hindi demanding justice for the Moradabad: incident. One said: “Kala din. Id ke dip par khoon ki holi, Hamaresaath ye anyay kyon?Some persons alleged that trouble arose after the Id prayers at the Jama Masjid, Residents, however, said there had been no communal trouble in the area since 1947 and both communities had lived peacefully. All stressed this point, Witnesses believed the incident hadi no political overtones,Earlier, the Imam of the Jama Masjid1 had returned to the capital after being reportedly ^topped from going to Moradabad at Gajraula by the police.The Imam came to the Jama Masjid shortly before 1 p.m. and straightwayaddressed the gathering for a few minutes. He told them that he had been prevented from entering Moradabad. The prayers would be held after half an hour. He appealed to the crowd to maintain peace and not to chant slogans.Meanwhile, on the south side of the Jama Masjid just below the police post housed on the first floor of a building, supporters of the Indian Union Muslim League had put up black flags and placards demand’ng justice for the minority group. They tied black bands on the hands of all those who poured in to pray at the Jama Masjid. Groups of youth Waving black flags and chanting slogans also kept pouring in. The police kept their distance as the people asserted that the Moradabad incident was not a communal one but one between, the police and th? people.Everything appeared to be peaceful when suddenly at 1.10 p.m. two truckloads of lathi-wielding police arrived at the spot. There was an uproar as some youth rushed towards the trucks demanding that the police leave the area. The twb trucks backed out as fast as they could and tension ceased.The Imam ihen delivered post prayer address (Khutba); He said it was vital to; maintain peace. He said he had avoided getting arrested near Moradabad because if he' had been arrested violence would have rocked the country. He exhorted them not to raise provocative slogans or to do anything that would lead to tension or violence. He only agreed to offer prayers fqr the “shaheed” of Mora-dabad if they promised to go norae peacefully.After the prayers, appeals were made to the .people to go home peacefully and not collect outside the police post. As the- congregation was dispersing, news of the riots at Ballimaran, Baradari Chowk, Churiwalan and Jogi-wara reached Jama Masjid.Tension then gripped the area. People scurried for shelter. Elderly people tried to pacify the youth who appeared to be highly, agitated. The latter, taunted the former and. rushed towards Chawri Bazar. At one stage it was announced oyer the Jama Masjid public address system that som'e stone-throwing was taking place from the Dariba side and the police should control it.Teargas filled the air at Jama Masjid, where a group of youth had organised themselves to face their alleged attackers. Throughout - the two-hour chaos from 2.30 pm. elders tried in vain to dissuade the youth from aggravating matters.The youth, armed with saws, iron rods, lathis, aerated water bottles and stones kept running ■ to and fro. A fire tender was stopped just near the police post. The windscreen was smashed and the firemen belobaured. The attackers then drove the fire tender towards Chawri Bazar themselves.The mob was finally pacified around 4.20 p.m. when tne SHO of Jama Masjid announced that a curfew had been imposed in the area.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.t-hitr,r.dis5.iflC8icy,>0.
﻿Curfew clamped on MhowThe Times of India (J86J-current); Aug 23, 1969; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Curfew clamped on Mhow<4The Times of India'' News ServiceINDORE. August 22: Curfew was clamped on Mhow. a cantonment town 21 kilomc'res from here. this afternoon, fo'lowing communal riots.It will be in force till 7 a.m. tomorrow.	'Three companies of the Special Armed Force have been rushed to Mhow from here while two companies from Bhopal anived here to prevent any recrudescence of the June riojs.The police authorities said communal frenzy had gripped Mhow since early this morning and schoolboys collected near the Hari Phatak locality and began stoning passing vehi-e es. Arson, looting and other forms of violence soon broke out.Sixty people had been arrested by evening, 39 for the violation of curfew. Seven people sustained injuries in the violence. Two of them wer^* wrought to Indore and admitted --to hospital.--. “ ' r—■	-Mr. P. K. Lahiri, Collector, said that except for two case of arson near Dhar Naka. no major case had been reported after dusk.P.YT. adds:	All schools and col-eges in the affected areas were ordered tonight to remain closed tomorrow.Clash in JabalpurJABALPUR, August 22: A ten-hour :urfew was clamped on four localities af Jabalpur today following a clash jetween two groups.Six people were iniured in an ex-:hange of brickbats. The police rottnd-:d up seven people.A prohibitory order under Section 144, Cr.P.C., has been promulgated 'or a week in the city, excluding the :ivil line areas,—P.T.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿POLICEMEN HURT IN CLASH: SAVE-COW” CAMPAIGNThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Aug 2, 1955; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1POLICEMEN HURT IN CLASH ^Save-Cow” Campaign“The Times of India” News ServiceNEW DELHI, August 1: Mr, Sita Ram Khemka, Secretary of the All-India Gorakshartha Yudh Samiti, and six other volunteers demanding ban on cow slaughter were taken into custody in front of Parliament House today following a clash with the police.Mr. Khemka fell unconscious as a result of the scuffle between the volunteers and the policemen on duty. He was taken to hospital in a police van. A number of policemen also sustained minor injuries.	'The trouble arose when the demonstrators, numbering about 30, tried to break through the police cordon and get into the compound of Parliament House in defiance of the order under Section 144, Cr. P.C., in force in the area. :In the melee that followed, a number of demonstrators were seen striking the policemen with flagstaff as the latter pushed them back. The police authorities denied having resorted to a lathi-charge.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Manipur under control: ChavanThe Times of India (J86J-current); May 5, 1993; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 14Manipur under control: ChavanNEW DELHI, May 4 (UNI): The home minister, Mr S. B. Chavan, told the Lok Sabha today that the situation in Manipur, following communal violence, was now tense but under control.Making a sou moto statement in the house, on the clashes between the Meitei and Muslim communities, Mr Chavan said that according to reports received from the state government, there was no fresh violence during the day.So far, 68 people had been killed and 78 sustained grievious injuries and were undergoing treatment in hospitals.Anti-social elements, numbering 109, were arrested in Imphal and Thoubal districts. More arrests were being made. The affected people were being provided relief, Mr Chavan said.Mr Chavan said there was a sudden outbreak of communal clashes yesterday over a minor dispute between two parties, over monetary transaction in Lalong Bazar of Thoubal district.The violence spread quickly to communally sensitive pockets in Thoubal and Imphal districts.The state government took action to contain the violence and the army was put on alert. Units of Assam Rifles conducted flag marches in the affected areas.R§ walk-out overNTC fund misuseNEW DELHI, May 4 (PTI): The entire opposition in the Rajya Sabha today staged a walk-out on account of modernisation of 124 National Textiles Corporation (NTC) mills,The house witnessed acrimonious exchanges when the minister of state for textiles, Mr G. Venkatswamy, while replying to clarifications sought by members on a calling attention motion, said the government floated a fund of 'Rs 750 crores for the Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI) in 1986 for modernisation of NTC mills, but only Rs 46 crores could be spent on them.A major amount was diverted to private sector textile mills, the minister said.The non-BJP opposition members, led by Mr Gurudas Dasgupta (CPI), made a strong plea for a high-level inquiry into the deversion of the fund.The minister wanted to defend the action of the government, which led to members walking out of the house.The BJP members wanted a firm assurance that there would be no retrenchment on account of modernisation of mills. Mr Venkatswamy’s failure to give the assurance prompted the BJP members to stage a walk-out.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Jogeshwari firing questionedA Staff ReporterThe Times of India (1861-current); Jan 30, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 3By A Staff ReporterBOMBAY, January 29: The toll in the Jogeshwari riots rose to seven this evening even as a surface calm prevailed during a two-hour relaxation of curfew this morning.rrakasn jagannatn More (21) succumbed to bullet injuries this evening.A visit to the troubled areas ofMcghwadi, Squatters Colony Sham-nagar and Gandhinagar and the Cooper Hospital where 13 injured have been admitted, found residents questioning the ‘'indiscriminate police firing.”The police on their part justified the firing, and were rather perturbed by what they saw as a emerging tactic in which women were used to divert attention from male rioters.Mr A. A. Khan, additional commissioner of police, however, admitted that not a single woman figured in the 107 arrested so far.Mr Khan felt the riots were “well organised” this time around unlike the last riots in December, when four persons were killed in police firing. “We were not expecting any fresh trouble. There was absolutely no indication that something was afoot,” he said, adding, “But we were not taken by surprise.”Locals, however, were apprehensive of a fresh spurt in violence from January 26 onwards.The riots actually broke out the next day and the police opened fire and burst tear-gas shells to quell the mob. Residents insist that the police resorted to firing before opting for other measures such as a lathi-charge or bursting tear-gas shells.Family members of Ms Pramodini Gosalkar (22) who died in the firing contradicted the police version that she was part of a mob which was indulging in arson. “She was an innocent bystander who was hit by a bullet while trying to sec what the commotion was about,” they main-tain.According to them and Mr Bhagwan Jadhav, who was hit in the thigh by a bullet while standing alongwith Pramodini and others, the police fired into the residential areas. It was wrong to claim that they were participants in the riots, they said.Anjar Hussain, a resident of Andheri, was severely injured while returning from visit to a friend in Jhula Maidan around 7 p.m. He wasstabbed in the back and hit on the head by a group of men who waylaid him.The police scigc has however, been effective since no untoward incidents were reported even when curfew was relaxed for two hours this morning to enable people to purchase essentials. Curfew will be relaxed for three hours tomorrow from 7 a.m. A morcha by women residents in the troubled areas to demand the release of those arrested passed off peacefully.Mr Khan said the police recovered a large number of molotov cocktails, acid bottles and crude slings used to catapult fiery missiles. House-to-housc searches were carried out within a 100 metre radius of the sites where the catapults were used.The police have registered five offences and have carried out preventive detentions. Eight people were arrested for defying ban orders.The chief minister, Mr Sharad Pawar, had visited the area last night to review the arrangements by the police.In a letter to the chcif minister, Mr Shared Pawar, the city BJP president, Mr Ram Naik, yesterday alleged that the riots were pre-planned and that the police did not take adequate cognisance of the complaints about the likely events. He also complained that tear-gas was not used before firing. Mr Ramesh Dube, minister of state, accompanied him to the Cooper hospital and it was only after this that the bodies of the deceased were sent to the J. J. hospital for post mortem. Mr Naik demanded a judicial inquiry into the frequent riots in the area.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Firing again in Srinagar:Our Staff CorrespondentThe Times of India (1861-current); Aug 18, 1980; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1By Our Staff CorrespondentSRINAGAR, August 17. r|’WO persons were killed instan-~~ tly when the police	openedfire near the Zainakadal	bridgehere today.Among those injured in the re* netved spate of ‘violence was' Mr. Abdul Rashid Kabli, Janata MLA, Mr. kabli, who sustained a bullet injury tn the .shoulder, has been, admit*ted to-hospital. '	‘There were a number of clashes be* tween the police , and the mobs'on the stretch! bfetviee.n .IChanyar and Zaina* kadal. Stray cases,of. arson were also reported; In the afternoon/ thick black smoke was seen over, the -Zainakadal area .	•'	■A number of persons were injured. SoJJ® arrests were also made. ,The divisional commissioner of Kashmir .range,. Mr, M; - A. Khan, told newsmen this , evening that prol hibdory orders had been imposed inunder the Jurisdiction of the Maharajgani and Khanyar police sta-!°ns. He declared, that the authorises would dehl sternly with the trouble-makers:	•ONE INJUREDHe; ,s.ta'ted titat they police had to open fire twice wheii a mob moved towards an ■ area inhabited predomi*AsF / reli/H nynonty ^immunity. As a result of the police firing, twopersons were killed, while one per*son was seriously injured. ■He said that two persons were killed yesterday when the police opened fjTn!fa’ the ^hanyar Police:station.vlctims wer« identified as Javed'.Ahmed and Latif.Even the official and public ver-Circumstances’ surrounding [he mudent in which -Mr. Kabli' was injured this morning differ, The offi-Continued on Page u Column 7Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.Deep conspiracy, says MinvaizContinued from Page 1 Column 8cial version is that he was hit by a stray bullet. .However, Mirwaiz Farooq, chairman of the Awami Action Committee, said the incident had occurred in the presence of the DIG (CID) and the deputy commissioner who were with Mr. Kabli at that moment. He alleged that a havildar of the Jammu and Kashmir armed police fired at Mr. Kabli at point-blank range, This account was corroborated by some Awami Action Committee activists who were present at the scene.The bullet pierced Mr. Kabli’s left shoulder and emerged from the other side. He was taken to hospital where his condition was reported to bf> satisfactory.The Mirwaiz said Mr. Kabli was trying to pacify the mob in th« Zai-nakadal area. A request to this effect had been made by the inspector-general of police, the Mirwaiz claimed.He said Mr. Kabli was accompanied by police officers and the Awami Action Committee workers. He had succeeded, to a large extent, in pacifying the crowd and was returning when the incident took place.The Mirwaiz saw a “deep conspiracy” by some elements to create commuhal conflagration in the state and the rest of the country. He blamed anti-social elements for creating trouble in the Rhanyar area yesterday. The law and order machinery had also failed in controlling the sitou tion, he sa'd.	'He. wondered why ! the police had; permitted students. of Islamia College to march towards Khanyar yesterday when it would have been easier tqrdeai with the situation outside the educational institution itself.He demanded a judicial inquiry into the incident involving M!r. Kabli “who appeared to have been singled out for attention.”Later, the Mirwaiz telephonically apprised ,the Prime Minister of the events in the city. Mrs. Gandhi is reported to have expressed her con-cen at the incidents and assured the Mirwaiz that she would request the state government to tackle the situation effectively.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Violence unabated in MoradabadOur Staff CorrespondentThe Times of India (1861-current); Aug 16, 1980; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Violence unabated in MoradabadBy Onr Staff CorrespondentMORADABAD, August 15;17IOLENCE continued to rock* this _ town today despite thtf curfew imposed in the wake off Wednesday’s clashes between the minority community and the police.Fifteen people were killed when a mob set fire to some houses in Ramti-laiya on the outskirts of the town last night. Two others were killed in firing today, raising the toll to 108 of about 200 injured, the condition of 98 is stated to .be serious.Unofficial sources estimate the toll at 130. According to Mr. H. M.; Siddi-qui, a Congress (I) MLA at least 150 people have lost their lives,,	,The worst affected arfeas are Faiz-ganj and Deputyganj, • where armed mobs were seen moving about freely, defying the curfew. Several narrow lanes echoed to the sound of stray shots fired from housetops.The district authorities are obviously1 having a difficult time in controlling; the situation created by the riots which have touched off protest demonstrations and sporadic incidents of violence! in quite a few towns in U.P. and elsewhere.Police reinforcements are being rushed to this town to help the authorities maintain law and order.Unofficial reports said rampaging mobs attacked the city kotwali and the police lines and exchanged lire with the policemen, BSF and CRP personnel.There were several incidents of arson last night when about 30 shops and several houses were set ablaze by miscreants.The curfew was extended for anindefinite . period tonight. Over 200 people, mostly anti-social elements, have been arrested so far. Five policemen are reported missing.. The main police station, near I^lgah, is being guarded heavily. Weapons from other police stations have been, shifted to safer places! fpr. fear of being looted by apti-soci^'t. elements. The district authorities b|f|* cancelled all arms licences and alSla the people to deposit thsir weapons with the nearest police stations.MAJOR SHAKE-UPMeanwhile, official sources said here tonight that the government had pr-dered a major administrative shake up. The collector and the sehior superintendent of police ate being transferred. While summary powers have been conferred on about 50 gazetted officers, eight additional district magistrates' have been appointed; to supervise the arrangements for maintaining law and order operations in different sectors of the town.The appeals for peace issued by two leaders, Maulana Asad Madni, Congress (I) MP and Jamait-e-Ulema leader, and Syed Hashmi, a Lok Dal MP, seem to have had some impact on agitated members of the minority community.SITUATION TENSEIn Lucknow, the inspector-general of police, Mr. Miahendra Singh, described the situation in Moradabad as “tense.” He said additional police reinforcements had been rushed to the town to control the situation.Reports from neighbouring areas in Rarapur and Bareilly indicated that a section of the minority community tried to take out processions in protest against the Moradabad incidents, but the enforcement of prohibitory orders and the deployment: of the armed police prevented the situation from taking a £g||is .turn, 'As a' preveh^Ejjeasure, shops selling liquor	and ammunitionhave been clipf? Elaborate steps have been taken td protect vital instal-Unions, including those connected with power and water supply.The chief justice of the Allahabad high court, Mr. Satish Chandra, is expected to nominate a high court judge next week to conduct an individual inquiry into the riots. One of the issues before the inquiry commis-Continued on Page 9 Column 5Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.Moradabad riotsContinued from Page 1 Column 3sion will be how a pip happened to find its way into a religious congregation and why, instead of driving it away, shots were fired at the policemen guarding the area* near the Idgah.The district magistrate, Mr. S. P. Arya, suspects that the riots were not spontaneous and feels that they were apparently planned. According to some sources, the GID and local intelligence men had warned the authorities that trouble was likely to occur /on Id day. What precautionary measures were taken in view of the warning remains to be examined.Commenting on the incidents, the former chief minister and Lok Dal leader, Mr. Banarsi Das, said “continued appeasement of the minorities’1 was mainly responsible for the riots.Mrs. Mohsina Kidwai, M.P. and former FCC(I) chief, said communal forces were behind the riots. She commended the manner in which the cnief minister, Mr. Vishwanath Pratap Singh, had handled the situation by rushing police reinforcements and ordering a judicial inquiry into the entire episode./Mr. Ram Naresh Yadav, former chief minister 'and Janata (S) leader, criticised the “callous and shortsighted’’ manner in which the district administration had dealt with the crisis. He felt that it should have exercised greater vigil.	#The leader of the opposition in the Vidhan Sabha, Mr. Rajendra Singh, urged all political parties to exercise restraint and not to give the incidents a political or communal colour.In Rampur a police constable was stabbed to death and another policeman seriously injured by a mob which set fire to 12 houses belonging to Harijans in the civil lines, area yesterday.ThB policemen had tried to prevent the mob from setting fire to the houses.	tAccording to the police, four _ people have been arrested. The district magistrate has promulgated prohibitory orders under section 144 Cr. PC. in the town.In Meerut the army staged a route fharch today.Army was tonight alerted at Rampur, Meerut and Kanpur cities. An official spokesman told newsmen that the army had already been deployed in Sambhal town.Sambhal town was placed' under indefinite curfew following some incidents of violence after the Friday prayers..Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Shoot-at-sighi in FaizabadThe Times of India (J86J-current); Oct 26, 1988; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1Shoot-at-sighi in FaizabadLUCKNOW. October 25 (UNI).THE district administration issued shoot-at-sight orders to deal with the rioters in curfew-bound Faizabad which remained peaceful today.The situation “is calm and quiet”, in the town with no incident reported during the past . 24 hours, the homeawciaiy, mi oaiu i\.umar tnpatni, told newsmen here this evening.Heavy patrolling by the provincial arms constabulary (PAC) and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) is continuing, he added.A total of 250 persons had' been rounded up„While the police put the toll in the four days of violence at six, the home secretary asserted that only five people had been killed.Jamshedpur (UNI): The district ad-1 ministration today lifted curfew in (he Mango area where 16 people were killed in a stampede on October 20 after the police resorted to lathi-charge on the devotees witnessing the immersion of goddess Durga on the Mango bridge.	'The Border Security Force was still patrolling vulnerable areas of the steel city.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿DISTURBANCES IN SIX M.P. TOWNS: CASES OF LOOTING AND ARSON REPORTED ...The Times of India (1861-current); Feb 10, 1961; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of Indiapg. 1IJABALPUR, February 9AS Jabalpur remained calm but tense under strict curfew and military patrolling, reports reached here of disturbances in Narsinghpur and Saugor Districts.The Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh, Dr. K. N. Katju, arrived here this afternoon and toured the troubled city. He appealed to the press to co-operate with the authorities in restpring normalcy.Dr. Katju said that 17 people died and 40 others were in-jured in the disturbances whichThe Inspector-General of Police, Mr. K. F. Rustumji, in a press note issued tonight, said that no incidents had occurred in Jabalpur during the last 30 hours. According to the press note, the police opened fire four times on Tuesday night. Six people were killed in the firing.Dr. Katju told newsmen that the Government would inquire into the tragic happenings here and deal sternly with those responsible. He appealed to everyone to strive to restore normalcy, as the riots here were besmirching the fair name of Jabalpur and the whole State.36-HOUR CURFEWNo indication is available about the continuation of 36-hour curfew, which expires at 6 a.m. tomorrow.Meanwhile, according to reports reaching here, trouble arose at Narsinghpur this afternoon when a students’ procession was stoned from a religious place. Rumours in the town at the same time about an alleged killing aggravated the situation. Seven or eight people were reported to have been arrested there following stray incidents, arson and looting. A prohibitory order under Section 144, Cr. P.C., is reported to have been promulgated at Narsinghpur.A report from Kareli, ten miles from Narsinghpur, said that students there took out a procession this morning. Some shops were looted and a police sub-inspector was injured. Curfew had been imposed on Kareli and a prohibitory order under Section 144, Cr. P.C., promulgated, the report said.No details about the disturbances in Saugor District are available here. Some minor incidents are reported to have occurred at Damoh also.P.T.I. adds: Disturbances have also been reported in the towns of Gadarwara, Kami and Gotegaon. -An official communique issued in Bhopal said that four persons were killed—two in Saugor and two 1 in Narsinghpur—as a result of the disturbances.	!The District Magistrate of Nar-singhpur has imposed dusk-to-dawnbroke out on Tuesday.curfew on Narsinghpur, Gadarwara Kareli and Gotegaon.At Narsinghpur three persons wer< stabbed, of whom two died, accord ing to the District Magistrate.At Saugor, the army was called oui to assist the police. Tear-gas shell: were burst by the police to disperse th( crowd which indulged in throwing stones and acts of arson. The situation was reported to be under control after the imposition of curfew.OFFICIAL COMMUNIQUEThe following is the text ot the communique issued in Bhopal: Reports were received here today from a few places in the State of tension and disturbance of law and ordei situation. The affected towns were Saugor, Damoh, Narsinghpur, Kareli Kami and Gadarwara.The situation at Jabalpur, however, continues to improve. No incidents have been reported during the day. Curfew was being enforced vigorously. The Chief Minister, Dr, K. N. Katju, went to Jabalpur by air to see the situation for himself.“At Saugor today, there were cases of stone-throwing and acts of arson. The crowd was, however, dispersed with the help of tear-gas shells. Curfew was imposed and troops were called out to assist the police in patrolling the town. Two- persons later succumbed to their injuries. The situation was reported to be under control by evening.“At Narsinghpur, three personsContinued on Page 7 Column 3Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿20 DIE IN JALGAON: ARMY CALLED OUTThe Times of India (1861-current); May 9, 1970; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of Indiapg. 120 DIE IN JALGAON: ARMY CALLED OUTBy A Staff ReporterEVEN as the state Government was trying to ease the tension in riot-stricken Bhiwandi on Friday, there was a flare-up in Jalgaon, about 400 kilometres from Bombay, in which 20 people lost their lives.The Army has been called out in Jalgaon, it was officially learnt in Bombay at night.The authorities have rushed 200 special police personnel and an additional police force to Jalgaon.Rioting has also spread to some parts of Kolaba district, and the authorities are taking immediate stepsto Teinforce the police torce in me j affected areas.The Chief Minister, Mr. V. P. Naik, and the Inspector-General of Police, Mr. A. G. Rajadhyaksiia, were being posted with the latest developments in those areas.Mr. Y. B. Chavan, Union Home Minister, has cancelled his programme. in batara and Karad and will visit Jalgaon on Saturday.A 24-hour curfew has been clamped on Jalgaon town from8 pjn.	.The situation in Jalgaon was olfi-cially stated to be under control late at night.The Bhiwandi incidents had thcii echo in Mahad where the police tired eight rounds to control violent mobs indulging in stone-throwing, arson and looting on Friday. The situation was, however, brought under control.According to reports' received ai State police headquarters in Bombay, over 12 people were injured, including five who sustained bullet injuries.1 vventy people have been arrested in Mahad where a lew shops, houses and two godowns were burnt.Congress (O) success in Mysore Council pollBANGALORE, May 8: The Organisation Congress, which suffered a debacle in the by-elections to the Mysore Assembly, fared very much belter in the biennial elections to the State Legislative Council from the local authorities' constituencies, winning all the four seals declared so far.In all, seven constituencies had gone to the polls yesterday.The Congress (Ol captured the two prestige Bangalore and Mysore constituencies from where the PCC general secretaries, Mr. B. J. Lingc Gow'da and Mr. M. C. Basappa, were elected, defeating their immediate Congress (R) rivals. From the Betlary and Tumkur constituencies two sitting Congress (O) members, Mr. K.. Chan-nabasavanna Gowda and Mr. A. S. Nandecsh respectively, were re-elected.—P.T.l.Gulbarga success“The Times of India” News ServiceGULBARGA. May 8:	Mr. Reva-nasiddappa Arundi (Cong.-O) has been declared elected to the Mysore Legislative Council from Gulba. gj local authorities constituency, detetu-ing his only independent rival, Mr. Ameresh Gowda, supported by the ruling Congress.Buddha peak scaled“The Times of India” News ServiceKATHMANDU, May S: Two members of Japan's Keio University expedition succeeded in climbing the Buddha peak (6,567 metres-high) in west Nepal on May 2, according to a wireless message received from team members by the Nepalese Government today.The climbers included Y. Kobayashi and K. ShibalaThe Keio team made a sterling ic-covery despite the initial set-back caused by the death ol one ol then team inmates, ltaya, on April 30.Since they signalled no message after this tragedy, it was believed that they had given up the attempt. Instead. they went ahead with their mission as scheduled*Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Rioting in Baroda continuesOur Staff CorrespondentThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 30, 1982; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1T! ©	$ •	•tooting inBarodacontinuesOur Staff CorrespondentBARODA, October 29.MOB attacks continued here today in several curfew-bound areas like Panigate despite intensive patrolling by the army and the police.A police inspector	fired sixrounds in the air when a 300-strong	mob pounced	upon hisjeep in	the Wadi area.	An SRPman also fired one round from his rifle. #Fire incidents were reported from Fatehpura, Sultanpura and Yakub-pura. In the Panigate area, the police lathi-charged a mob when it tried to loot a shop, injuring five people.Meanwhile, the police today intensified the	“cleaning up	operation,”which involved, apart from preventive arrests, launching externment proceedings against 106 anti-social elements. Substantive cases had been registered against 168 people. 1	.At a hurriedly-called press conference,' the home minister, Mr. Prabodh Raval, said the imposition of punitive tax was under consideration and if the situation warranted NSA would be invoked.Mr. Sanat Mehta, finance minister, today discussed the situation with the police commissioner and urged himto seek the co-operation of leading citizens in restoring normalcy. He said two executive magistrates would be provided for trying the cases launched against anti-social elements.He said he, as finance minister, would support any proposal for opening sub-police stations in the trouble-prone areas.	'The city will have a two-hour relaxation of curfew at 7 a.m. tomorrow, after an unprecedented continuous 58-|hour curfew. Life in the city remained completely paralysed for the second day today with most of the establishments, factories, schools, and cinemas «losed. Several areas went without jmilk, vegetables,. and other essential supplies. Many roads in the sensitive areas were littered with stones, brick ;and glass pieces.The police continued their searches itoday and the seizures included a rich haul of acid bulbs and lethal weapons.Abniedabad (UNI):	The situationiin Himmatnagar, headquarter town of ;Sabarkantha district in north Gujarat, was reported peaceful today after violent incidents for two days.The night curfew clamped on the town last night was lifted today at (0600 hrs and there was no untoward incident reported till the evening according to official sources.Schools, colleges, shops and offices worked normally • today, the sources added.However, prohibitory orders banning the assembly of more than four people taking out of procession and shouting of slogans remain in force.At least 31 people have been arrested following violence during, last two days, while 12 have been arrested for violation of prohibitory orders.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Spreading FlamesThe Times of India (1861-current); Dec 11, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 14Spreading FlamesIn the wake of unabated communal violence, the old city of Hyderabad has had to be handed over to the army. This is as much an indictment of the state's law and order machinery as of the chief minister, Dr Chenna Reddy’s leadership. The political inputs needed for the resolution of the communal conflict are patently missing. The BJP, which is desperately trying to strike roots in Andhra Pradesh, has felt emboldened by the rapturous response to Mr L.K. Advani’s Rath Yalta. It cannot, therefore, be expected to help in lowering the communal temperature. The Telugu Desam is in disarray for over a year now, while Congressmen are too busy fighting one another. That leaves the state administration having to fall back upon its inept and unimaginative reflexes. It is possible to argue that the chief minister could have performed more credibly and authoritatively had he not been subjected to an endless campaign from the dissidents within the ruling party. The alacrity with which his cabinet colleague, Mr Srinivasulu Reddy, resigned only betrays the dissidents’ anxiety to use the violence to press the Central leadership to ease out Dr Reddy. The dice is increasingly loaded against the chief minister. Leaders like Mr J. Vengal Rao and Mr Shiv Shankar have also joined the dissident camp because the chief minister has been unwilling to provide berths in his cabinet to their sons. It is quite possible that the high level team the Congress president has sent to Hyderabad to study the situation may provide just the fig-leaf of an excuse to send Dr Chenna Reddy packing. Nevertheless, the need of the hour is also that there should be as little doubt as possible about the authority and future of the chief minister, whosoever he may be.	.If the situation in Hyderabd can be attributed to a self-. inflicted leadership vacuum in Andhra Pradesh, the large-scale rioting in Aligarh, the threat of similar eruption in other towns^ of Uttar Pradesh, and the continuing violence in Gujarat has.to' be traced back to the lingering post-Ayodhya frenzy. This has belied the hopes that a change of leadership in New Delhi would automatically mollify the forces of confrontation that Mr V.P. Singh was suspected of having instigated. So complete is the breakdown in the relationship between the majority and minority communities, and so eroded has become the efficacy and professionalism of our police forces, that containment of violence is proving increasingly difficult. New Delhi has to recognise that the country is faced with a long haul and that there is no alternatives to a rigorous and an honest application of the secular approach and of the law of the land. Appeasement will only beget more Hyderabads and Aligarhs.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿1 shot in Aligarh, curfew imposedThe Times of India (J86J-current); Mar 21, 1982; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1ALIGARH, March. 20 (l|Ni):, One more. person was shotv at here today following the imposition of an indeti-nite dUsk-do-dawn curfew in .the city area ’ after . a fruitseller. was shot dead at Khai Dora three, days ago.The district magistrate, Mr. R. 11. Shah, said today’s shooting incident took place near Sas'ni Gate. The Vic* tim, identified as Rn'ssi. has been .admitted Jo the. civil hospital with serious injuries.	; ^Mr. Shah said the man killed in the Khai Dora area was returning home at night from the fruit market when the incident occurred.Curfew clamped on BarodaAHMEDABAD, March 20 (PTI & UNI): An indefinite curfew was imposed in the Panigate area -of Bare a city today where two - people wece stabbed to death and- several house? set on fire following group clashes late last night. .The situation today was officially said to be. under control.Reports received by the state police headquarters here said the police had fired, five rounds after teargas action failed to restore order. No one was injured in the firing.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Clashes: curfew in Mangrul PirThe Times of India (J86J-current); Oct 22, 1980; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 7Clashes: curfew in Mansrrul Pir1 A KOLA, October 21 (PTI):	Thedistrict collector of Akola today clamped a curfew as a precautionary measure on the tehsil town of Mangrul Pir, 60 km. from here, follo^v-ins; clashes cetween two groups of people yesterday.According to the police, the clashes occurred when the authorities refused permission for taking out a Durga immersion procession through a particular locality.On receipt of information, the district collector along with the superintendent of police rushed to Mangrul Pir, with additional ^ police and persuaded the' processionists to :omplete the immersion which they ltd early this morning.The curfew was clamped as a pre-:autionary measure after the immer-iion ceremony.Forty-seven person were arrested.Two hurt as 1AF ’copter forcelandsNEW DELHI, October 21 (UNI):An Indian Air Force helicopter to-iay forehanded in a water-logged lit.ch in the Timarpur area of north Delhi.Two of the three crew members vere injured and removed to the military hospital after first aid.Sqn. Ldr. J. S. Sharma, the cap-ain, sustained only minor injuries, sut the crew member, Mr. M. C.Basu, was injured on the face and ips, according to the Hindu Rao Hospital where they were given first lid.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew in old HyderabadThe Times of India (1861-current); Jul 14, 1981; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1Curfew in oldHYDERABAD, July 13 (PTI): Curfew was damped in the old city here tonight following group clashes.Two persons were killed when the police opened fire today to disperse two clashing groups in the Tappa Cha-butra area. Another person was stabbed to death in the area.As many as 15 stabbing cases were reported from Tappa Chabutra, Kul-sumpura and Karwan areas which were the scene of clashes between two groups of people last night.The polide said four persons, who were seriously injured, were admitted to the Osmania Hospital.Shpps and'hotels in’ the old city were asked to down their shutters at ‘6 p.m. today by the police in a bid to ensure peace.The home minister, Mr. C. Jagan-natharao, visited the affected localities. The commissioner of police is present on the spot.CM sees conspiracy, Page 5Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Moradabad riots claim 105 livesThe Times of India (1861-current); Aug 15, 1980; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1MORADABAD, August 14(PTI),rTHE death roll in riot-strickv. A en Moradabad , today mounted to 105 as fresh incidents of violence were reported in the curfew-bound town.More than 100 were injur'd some of them seriously, in the ii cidents sparked by a clash betwee members of the minority comm nity and the police at Idgah ve: terday.The Union home minister, Mi Zail Singh, accompanied by his dt pu;y, Mr. Yogendra Makwana, an the minister of state for railway: Mr. Jaffer Sharief, airdashed here t make an on-the-spot study of tl si nation.The U.P. chief minister, Mr. V. F Singh, also flew in from Lucknow i expedite the process of bringing tt city back to normalcy.Platoons of the Border Securit Force, the Central Reserve Polio and the Provincial Aimed Constabi lary have been rushed to the tow which witnessed an “unprecendented Violence on Id day yesterday.The army, which has been aske to stand by, conducted reconnai; sance of the affected localities. Mi Yogendra Makwana told PTI that the situation deteriorated furthe: the , army would be asked to assis the authorities in controlling th situation.	'Mr. Zail Singh, accompanied b the state chief minister and othc Central and state ministers, wei round the Idgah and other afifecte areas.	•A team of PTI correspondentfound the town in the grip of tension as sporadic gunfire was heard during the day in front of the city Kothwali. Gunwielding youngmen were seen perched on rooftops.Police constables armed with lathis were ^ seen running for shelter in and around the Kothwali whenever the youngmen aimed the guns at them.The streets of the town were littered with brickbats and stones. Two fire-devastated police outposts and some looted houses and shops bore testimony to the mob fury.The curfew has been extended till tomorrow morning in view of the prevailing tension, shouting and counter-shouting of slogans, exchange of brickbats and stray incidents of stabbing.Mr. Zail Singh said the foremost i task before him was to restore the confidence of people in the administration. He said any misunderstanding between the administration and the people had to be removed immediately. A judicial inquiry has already been ordered into the incident.Eighty-six bodies have been recovered so far, including that of Mr. Digvijay Pratap Singh, administratoi of the Moradabad municipal board.Fifty-two of them were crushed to death in a stampede near Idgah. Another 20 succumbed to gunshot injuries and nine died of stab wounds. According to the authorities 15 policemen were still missing.With his head bandaged and a swollen left eye, Mr. Vijay Nath Singh, senior superintendent of police, gave a vivid account of yesterday’s clashes from a sick bed.He said it was the fust time that rioting had broken out in Moradabadon Id day. The namaz, attended by about, 50,000 to 60,000 people, had ended around 9.15 am. As the sermon by the Imam was going on, there was some commotion outside the Idgah, he said.When told that a pig had strayed’ into the area, he immediately sent a posse of policemen along with members of a peace committee* comprising both the communities.Claiming' that their ‘namaz’ was disturbed and the police did not do anything; some people turned on the police and manhandled some of them.The peace committee members persuaded the police to leave the scene and promised to pacify the agitated people, Mr. Singh said.Some people started hurling stones at the police from behind a tent which belonged to the Muslim League. Soon stoning started from all directions. Teargassing was ordered but it proved ineffective.According to the police authorities, some people whot had offered ‘namaz’ were apparently * armed as gunshots were fired at the police.Mr. Ghulam Mohammed Khan, Lok Dal member representing the Moradabad parliamentary constituency, said these incidents were not communal. “The police overreacted to the situation,” he alleged.Mr. Vinod Mehta, general secretary of the city Congress (I) committee, said the situation was grim.The civil lines and the railway road area appeared to be normal. Interstate buses and train services were running according to schedule.Fresh incidents were reported in the past 24 hours in Bara Dari, Jham-Continued on Page 9 Column 4Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.Continued from Page 1 Column 3boo Nala, Hanuman Mandir and localities around the Kothwali. .The authorities promulgated prohibitory orders under section 144 Cr. P.C., in Meerut and Allahabad.New Delhi : Mrs Indira Gandhi, has sanctioned Rs. 4 lakhs from the Prime Minister’s national relief fund to provide assistance to the families of victims of the clashes in Moradabad.A two-member parliamentary delegation of the CPI is visiting Moradabad to make an on-the-spot appraisal of the situation.According to a CPI press release, Mr. S. Kumaran and Mr; Bhola Prasad, members of the Rajya Sabha, will, constitute the delegation.Members of Parliament from diffe-Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner.rent political parties have expressed concern at the violence in Morada-1 bad.Meeting under the chairmanship of Mrs. Subhadra Joshi, former MP, to revive the parliamentarians’ committee against communalism, .they decided that a deputation would meet the Union home minister, Mr. Zail. Singh, and urge him to save the situation from deteriorating.	,A team of MP’s will be visiting Moradabad to make a first-hand appraisal of the situation and help restore harmony.Among the MP’s present were Mau-lana Syed Hashmi (Cong-U) and Mr. Ajit Mehta ^Lok Dal).	,The. Bharatiya Janata Party president, Mr. Atal Bihari Vajpayee, has urged the government to take firpi action against those responsible for yesterday’s violence in Moradabad and Delhi.Mr. Vajpayee met the minister of state for home affairs, Mr. Yogendra Makwana, and emphasised the need for immediate action to contain troubles'at both places.Referring to the clashes in Delhi, Mr.,' Vajpayee, said. “Innocent Harijan residents of. Valmiki Basti on Panch Kuian Rpacflwere summoned^ to the police station on the plea of inquiry and then taken into custody.” These persons should be released immediately, he stiad. >,The ,-SHa.hi Imam told Muslim leaders in .-Delhi that he. would leave immediately for Moradabad along with other elders of the community an a peace mission to' aesuade feel-itigs injured by yesterday’s incident.•i^The Imam regretted that “a,/peaceful congregation which had ‘assembled at the Idgah at Moradabad to offer prayers on Id should hay;©' been subjected to unprovoked	firing.”He hoped that his visit^wohld help restore peace and tranquillity and the confidence of the people in the administration. ’The Imam urged the government to:1 Suspend the police and PAC personnel responsible for the ;firing.	,. Meerut: Several hundred Muslim youths, led by the city ;(Lok Dal general secretary, Mr. Khurshid Alam Khan, took out a procession today to'protest against the Moradabad incidents.	1Wearing black bands, they inarched through the main streets and submitted-a memorandum to the district magistrate.Mr. V. N. Anand, district magistrate, told PTI that two persons from among the processionists were injured in separate incidents. While one person was hit by a aerated water bottle, another received injuries when some unidentified person1 fired with a country-made pis.ol. Both have been admitted to hospital.Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Karnataka violence leaves 3 more deadThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 10, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 15The Times of India News Service BANGALORE, Oct. 9.THE toll in the communal violence of the past week in Karnataka has risen to 45, with i the death of three men who were stabbed in the curfew-bound town of Davangere in Chitradurga district last night, 'reports said.; Curfew was clamped on the town tof Tumkur, 70 km from here, after the police fired on arsonists who burnt shops and vehicles last night, ^according to state police head-quarters here. Three men were injured in the firing. One of them is in 'a critical condition.*; Three men were also stabbed in •Tumkur during a power failure,; which enabled rioting groups to elude 4he police and attack shops and ; Vehicles.• Four towns are now under curfew Davangere, Tumkur, Channapat-na and Kolar. Prohibitory orders 'have been promulgated in at least 25 towns statewide, including ten disquiet headquarters.I' Communal violence has so far [ claimed 1$ lives in Davangere. The town was rocked by sporadic inci-; dents of arson and rioting last night.; In all, four persons were stabbed and ’three died in hospital later, the police Said.Shops and vehicles were also setablaze in Hosaduiga in Chitradurga district, and Lebennur and Gubbi in Tumkur district However, no violence was reported from Channapat-na, where communal riots claimed 16 lives last week. In Kolar too no new attacks were reported, but curfew continues in both the towns.UNI adds from Bangalore that the Union minister of state for home, Mr Subodh Kant Sahay, will arrive here tomorrow and go around some of the towns affected by communal strife during	his two-day visit toKarnataka.Official sources said that Mr Sahay would be accompanied by ten members of Parliament belonging to different political parties.A report from Gonda says the Union	home minister, MuftiMohammed Sayeed today confirmed that 41 people were killed in the recent communal riots in Kamailganj town and neighbouring areas of Gonda district.Mr Sayeed, blamed the district administration for not taking effective steps to deal with the situation promptly and said it was strange that the rioting had taken place in front of the police station on September 30 and October 1. Five hundred houses were burnt in the violence, he added.The home minister said several persons had left their houses in terror and admitted that the tension in Gonda district was due to the situation in neighbouring Ayodhya.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿2 killed, 3 hurt in Meerut violenceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jul 26, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 12 killed, 3 hurt inMeerut violenceMEERUT, July 25 (PTI): Two persons were killed and three were injured when the police opened fire on an unruly mob which indulged in violence at Sarurpur Kila, 55 km from here in Bagpet tehsil of Meerut district today,The police said the people were agitating following the death of a girl who was killed in an accident on July 21 last.In two separate incidents, two per sons were injured, when some uniden tified persons fired at them at Purw; Ahiran and Ismail Nagar.The injured have been hospitalisee and their condition was stated to be ou of danger.' ' t city oc relaxatioiMeerutcurfewThe incidents in curred during the period under the Kotwali police circle The additional district magistrate Mr D. S. S. Yadav. said today a mot gathered on the Saharanpur highwa; armed with spears and lathis an< attacked the passing buses.When the mob turned violent, th< SLIM,. Bagpet, Mr Mukesh Gupta ordered the firing.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿100 villages in Buldana plunged in darknessOur CorrespondentsThe Times of India (1861-current); Mar 18, 1984; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 7By Our Correspondents' BULDANA, March 17.A BOUT 100 villages around Bul--C*- dana town were plunged in darkness on Thursday night when power supply was disrupted as a result reportedly of an act of sabotage.A joint statement issued in Buldana on Friday by the junior engineers’ union and the technical workers’ union demanded an inquiry into the incident.Meanwhile, the MSEB workers’ strike in the district has been claimed to be total success by Mr. Ratnakar Rajankar, general secretary of the Bharatiya Vidhut Kamgar Sangha’s Vidharbha unit.A morcha of some 250 striking workers was taken out in Buldana on Friday. The morcha was lead by Mr. Rajankar in support of the workers’ demand.Official trapped:	Hariram KisanBobade, manager of the industrial centre in Buldana, was caught by the anti-corruption police on Friday while allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs. 500, reports our correspondent.According to Mr. M. B. Deshmukh, station officer of the Buldana police, an offence under the Anti-Corruption Act has been registered against Bobade.SangliDeshing, 30 km from Sangli, wer admitted to an ayurvedic dispensar on Thursday for symptoms of fooi poisoning after consuming milk give to them at a primary school ther under the nutritious food scheme. On boy and a girl are reported to be i a serious condition, says our oorres pondcnt.SANGLI-MIRAJ RAIL LINE:	iquestion pertaining to the ten-krr Sangli-Miraj railway line and locatio of Madhavnagar station has bee filed in the Lok Sabha and woul be discussed during the current ses sion, according to a letter from ,M< Jagannath Patil, BJP MP, received b the vice-president of the Sangli muni cipal council, Mr. L. V. Galgale. Th issue was discussed in the stale as sembly on April 13 last, writes ou correspondent.NasikM-SEB CLAIM:	While the threunions of MSEB employees whicl called for a strike said that mor than 90 per cent of the workers ii the Nasik region stayed away fron work on Friday, the MSEB author! ties claimed that about 70 per cen reported for duty on the first day oer 65 KIDS IN HOSPITAL: Sixty-five fr> children, including 11 girls fromhe strike. No untoward incident was eported writes our correspondent.NASIK-PUNE FLIGHTS:	IndianAirlines is considering the feasibility >f introducing flights between Nasik md Pune, according to • its western egion commercial manager, Mr. >1. V. Natarajan. The airline now jperates seven flights a week between Bombay and Nasik against three when he service was introduced six months igo, adds our correspondent.Mr. Natarajan also told newsmen hat a permanent structure would be milt at Gandhi Nagar airport for lassengers, replacing the temporary hed.He said that by the end of January he, western region had attained 88 jer cent of its revenue target of Rs. .82 crores for 1983-84.POPPY PLANTS SEIZED: Poppy slants worth Rs 60,000 were seized n raids by an excise department squad n three place in Diandori taluka of Nasik district. Two people have been irrested, reports our correspondent.SataraSHOPS, SCOOTER BURNT vu-w Three shops and a scooter were jurat in a communal riot late on Friday night at Karad, Satara district.The police said on Saturday an ittack by two persons on an autorickshaw driver took a communal :urn. One person was arrested and line people were absconding. .The district superintendent, of police Mr. Bhujangrao Mohite, rushed to Karad from Satara and brought the situation under control. Prohibitory orders have been imposed in the area, the police added.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Violent incidents all over GujaratThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jun 29, 1985; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9The Times of India News ServiceAHMEDABAD, June 2*AFTER a day’s peace yesterday, violence erupted anew all over Gujarat today forcing the police to fire on mobs In Anandand Surat. •:.. .	.In Ahmedabad city,, at least two people were stabbed during the curfew relaxation period. ■ '	-	;The police fired two rounds at Sojitra village in Anand to disperse two groups locked in a fierce clash. None was injured in the firing. The clash, it was reported, occurredover eve-teasing but soon took a communal turn.The firing in Surat took place after tear-gas . had no effect on stonethrowing mobs. The crowd,. mostly; students, turned its attention, on the police' when the latter frustrated then* attempts to attack shops artd establishments..	/ ;	.;Curfew was re-imposed in parts of Jamnagar following violent incidents.	'The army has posted troops on roof-tops-to maintains constant vigil on the movement of scooters and other vehicular traffic which was pillowed for the first time on Relief Road and Gandhi Road in Ahmeda* bad after a! fortnight.A second attempt to set fire to the hanging bridge on rivet Machhu in Mom town in Rajkot district late last night was foiled by the timely arrival of the fire brigade.The police raided some houses in four villages of Khambhalia taluka of Jamnagar district and seized 12 fire arms' including six country made pistols and guns. Eleven persons have been arrested in this connection.More than 600 BJP workers were arrested for violating prohibitory orders in Gandhinagar as part of their “Madhavsinh hatao” programme to protest against the Congress government’s ’failure^ to control the. law and order situation in the state. _Meanwhile, the Gujarat education minister, Mr. Amarsinh Chaudhry, today once again appealed to opposition parties to l^elp the government create a proper atmosphere to enable them to conduct the SSC, HSC and other examinations which were postponed owing to disturbances.During question: hour in the state assembly, Mr. Chaudhrv _ said that the government was awaiting the. restoration of peace to. conduct examinations. .He said that army help for conducting examinations would be a last resort. .	IMr. Chaudhry cautioned the house that the students of SSC, HSC and colleges would not be given ‘mass promotion’..Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿MLCs force adjournmentThe Times of India (1861-current); Jan 23, 1980; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9NAGPUR, January 22 (UNI). ITglHE Congress (I) members of the A Maharashtra legislative council forced adjournment of the house twice amidst disorderly scenes and slogan-shouting today, the second day of the state legis-In hire session here.Between the two adjournments, the members gheraoed the deputy chairman, Mr, A. G. Pa war in his chamber for about an hour demanding action against the Janata party member, Mr. G. K. Phadnavis, for his remark against the Prime Minister, Mrs. Indira Gandhi.The chairman, Mr. R. S. Gavai, later ordered expunction of the remark and Mr, Phadanvis expressed regret.The first trouble arose when the deputy chairman, Mr, A. G. Pawai diallowed an adjournment motion moved by the leader of the opposition, Mr. Ram Meghe, on the communal clashes in in Malkapur ,in Buldana district and Bhusawal. .' The Congress (I) members started shouting slogans and Mr. Phadnavis responded with a counter-slogan. At one stage, an agitated Congress (I) member, Mr. Dajiba Patil, threw away the mike and toppled the desk before him in protest against Mr, Phadnavis’s remark.	._ As die deputy chairman found it impossible to conduct the proceedings because of the noisy scenes, he adjourned the house for 15 minutes and withdrew to his chamber, where the Congress (I) members followed and gheraoed him. They demanded that Mr. Phadnavis be expelled.• The chairman, Mr. R. S. Gavai, who was about to leave for Bombay, cancelled his flight and rushed to the scene of the gherao. Leaders of both sides, including the chief minis ter, Mr. Sharad Pawar, and Mrs. Pratibha Patil, leader of the opposition in the assembly, came in.Some Progressive Democratic Front (PDF) members, including Mir. Daulat-rao Bhonsale and Mr. Vithalrao Jag-tap, expressed themselves against Mr. Phadnavis’ remark.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Stray incidents in PuneThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); May 7, 1988; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 3Stray incidentsinPuneThe Times of India News ServicePUNE, May 6: The police havearrested 144 persons for 93 crimes committed during the six days of communal tension here. During the same period 294 persons have been taken into preventive custody.Last night, some unidentified persons stoned a Ganapati idol on Mahatma Gandhi Road in the Cantonment area. The idol was damaged and tube lights were broken.In the same area some 30 persons hurled stones at a policeman on duty. None has been arrested in the two incidents.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿24-hr. curfew in some areas in Allahabad: four stabbed to deathThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Apr 18, 1968; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1“The Times nf India” News fiervireALLAHABAD, April mA ROUND-THE-CLOCK Curfew was imposed on the Chpjvk.Kotwali, Khuldabad, Attarsuiya and Muthigan areasSpf the city today following fresh cases of stabbing in which fourlennlft were tilled	----------------------------S—■Among the killed were an employee of the Board of High School and Intermediate Education and a Home Guard on duty.The former was stabbed while he was proceeding to office. The Home Guard was knifed near a mosque.Twenty-four people have been arrested so far in connection with the stabbing incidents.Shops ip all main markets, including those in Johnstonganj, Chowk, Khuldabad and Nakhas Kona, were closed as tension mounted in the affected localities. '	•EXAMS. POSTPONEDHigh school and junior high school examinations were postponed. AH schools and colleges were closed for three days.Ten companies of the Provincial Armed Constabulary are being rushed to the town to reinforce the local police.The	Inspector-General	of	Police,Mr. Jia Ram, will reach Allahabad tomorrow to study the situation, which is causing anxiety.Mr.	K. P. Srivastava,	superinten-dent of police, Bareilly, who worked as a deputy superintendent of police in Allahabad some years ago, is being posted as additional superintendent of police. One superintendent of police (CID) and a few deputy superintendents and inspectors too are being rushed	to the	city.	•Mr.	N. K.	Verma, Deputy	Inspecrtor-General of Police, Kanpur range, too has rushed to the city.EXEMPLARY PUNISHMENTLate tonight, the District Magistrate, Mr. S. K. Bhatnagar, told newsmen that the situation had been brought under control. The city was expected to be normal in two or three days following the stem measures taken by the authorities.Meanwhile, all cases of stabbing, arson, looting and damage to places of worship would..be investigated by the _ CID promptly and exemplary punishment-.meted, out to the culprits.Some educationists and advocates of the Allahabad . High Court have 'sent a telegram to the Governor, Mr.,Gopala Reddy, requesting! him to visit the city to help restore communal harmony.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Plea to revoke Sangli poll results: District NewsThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Nov 30, 1985; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of Indiapg. 10The Times of India News ServiceSANGLI, November 29: Election petitions have been filed by three candidates from wards 20, 43 and 50 of the municipality in Sangli seeking cancellation of the poll results in these areas.The petitions, filed in the court of the Sangli district magistrate, allege that the Congress candidates used unfair means in their campaigns.INDIAN DOCS' FELLOWSHIP (TOINS): Dr. D. J. Arwade, an orthopaedist from Sangli and Dr. James Thomas, cardiologist of Miraj’s Wan-less Hospital, are among the ten In-District Newsdian medical specialists whb have been awarded fellowships by the American College of Surgeons in Chicago, United States.The American College is one ol the largest and oldest associations oi surgeons having a membership ol40.000	experts from all over the world. The college grants fellowships on the basis of qualification, experience. high standards of ethical practice, contribution to science and standing in society. This year 134 surgeons belonging to various countries have been granted the fellowship.' The 71st convention of the American College was attended by some15.000	surgeons between October 12 and 18,HEAD-CONSTABLE REWARDED (UNI): The district superintendent of police on Thursday announced a reward of Rs. 500 to head constable, Sambhwb who chased and apprehended one of the three assailants who had shot one person dead and seriously injured another.According to the police, the attackwas a sequel to an eight-year-old feud between two groups, known at the Rajoba and Dadage groups, ol Brahmanal in Tasagaon taluk/The< name of the arrested person was given as Vidyadhar Pachore.Ratnagiri3 HURT IN CLASH (TOINS): Three persons were injured when twe groups belonging to different communities clashed at Kalgundi in Chip, lun taluka after celebrating religious functions. The police have arrested some members of both groups,ChandrapurL & T STIR INTENSIFIES (TOINS): Workers of Larsen and Toubro’s cement factory at Awarpui have intensified their agitation foi more bonus with over 600 courting arrest in the last three days.According to Mr. Naresh Pugalia, president of the workers’ union, the striking employees have also resorted to a “rasta roko” agitation following the management’s refusal to concede their demand of 20 per cent bonus and 15 per cent ex-gratia payment.He told the ‘TOINS” in Chandrapur on Thursday that since the strike began on October 28, over 30 workers had been arrested and the police resorted to a lathi-charge on November 3.	IAurangabadBANK ROBBED (PTI): The Par-bhani district Co-operative Bank, Hingoli branch, was ransacked on Wednesday last, and Rs. 69,000 was stolen from the safe, according tc delayed official report received in Aurangabad on Friday.	’The thieves, however, left intacl another amount of Rs, 21,000 also kept in the safe.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿1 more dies in Srinagar violenceThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jun 1, 1984; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1ONE person was killed and abou 30 others, including five po licemen injured today, when thi police fired in the air, lobbed tear gas shells and lathi-charged a vio lent mob at Soporc in Barmulldistrict, the nnlice said.The police action came as the mob indulged in heavy stone-throwing and set fire to a bus in the apple township, a stronghold the Jamait-i-Islamis.The victim, who was seriously injured in the stone-throwing, succumbed to his injuries in the S.M.H.S, Hospital here, official reports said.The mob stoned a building which houses an insurance company’s office and also stoned shops belonging to a particular community.TOLL NOW THREEWith today’s incident, the death-roll in three days of clashes in the Kashmir valley has risen to three.But for this incident, almost complete normalcy prevailed in the rest of the valley where protest dentonstra-tions against the Bhiwandi incidents have been held for the past one week.The number of those arrested in connection with the clashes has risen to 325.The Kashmir University vice-chancellor, Mr. Manzoor Alam, the Jammu and Kashmir director-general of police, Peer Ghulam Hassan Shah, the Kashmir range deputy inspector-general of police, Mr, Ali Mohammad Watali, and top political leaders of the_ state are on the “hit list” of the police Peer Ghulam Hassan Shah, the■A typed poster on glazed paper, received by UNI by post says that “above all,” the unaccepted J and K governor, Mr. Jagmohan is on the hit list.Amritsar (PTI): The Pakistan government has released 14 Indian prisoners, mostly fishermen, from its jails nad they have been re-ternational road crossing on Wednes-i day.The prisoners were mostly inmates of a fishing boat “Ishwar Crupa” which had strayed into Pakistan waters during a storm about five months ago.The prisoners, who hailed from Ju-nagadh district of Gujarat, have been sent to their homes today by the district officials.	Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Fresh clashes in Jaipur claim 1The Times of India (1861-current); Dec 1, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 13JAIPUR, Nov. 30 (PT1).r; Vyviolence broke out dunhg He said the army, BSF, &PF, t the relaxation in the curfew here RAC aiid the Rajasthan ■ this morning, taking the toll in sonnel were patrolling the ctuftp! t communal violence since Mon*; boimd areas and soinepersonsfhj^i day to three.	been;taken into custody. 'Official sources said a man died of	TCe abrupt withdrawal ofifotbullet injuries in the interior area of curfew created /problems fofctlldtl the city from where incidents of arson who had gone to the curftre&Hm; were reported. Parts of the city have areas as they.could not returnljome been cordoned off and additional!	Most of the shops remained ctoteqsecurity forces rushed to quell the: Ti'i'TT/N-■ N' _	3/t! riots	Attendance in offices andiooflij? tu _r «. ..	. . .' imercial esteblishments remainacr Ihe curfew, which was scheduled thin and severer private schoohute , to be relaxed from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m.,i mained closed was imposed after just two hours	y.	>; ;ji»» following incidents of arson being UNI adds: A team of Conggea { reported.	central observers led by Mr iSartant the police opened fire to quell s rioteereft parts ofthe city. As soon : as the police announced thewithdrawal of relaxation, a large The team commirina Mr MlReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Call to maintain harmony in OrissaThe Times of India (J86J-current); Dec 9,1992; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 7Call to maintain harmony in OrissaCUTTACK, Dec. 8 (PTI): The ruling Janata Dal in Orissa and the state units of the CPI and the CPM have jointly appealed to all communities to maintain communal harmony in wake of the unfortunate incidents at Ayodhya on Sunday.The appeal was issued after the top leaders of the three parties held an emergency meeting in the chamber of the chief minister, Mr Biju Patnaik, at Bhubaneswar yesterday.According to a release issued here, they decided to campaign jointly in the state to maintain communal harmony.Mr Patnaik advised party leaders to take every possible step to safeguard unity and secularism in the country.The meeting also appealed to the people not to be swayed by rumours and maintain utmost calm.The state Janata Dal president,Mr Ashok Das, Mr Sivaji Patnaik,MP, Mr Jagannath Mishra and Mr Santosh Da9 (all CPM), Mr Prabir Palit, Mr Narendra Swain, Mr Dutikrushna Panda, Mr Pitamber Panda and Mr Ashish Mohapatra (all CPI) also attended the meeting.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Army out in BarodaOur Staff CorrespondentThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 29, 1982; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Fresh violence kills fiveArmy out in BarodaBy Our Staff CorrespondentBARODA, October 28.npHE army moved into the trouble-tom city this morning following the fresh wave of violence last night that claimed five lives. One person died in police firing and the others in stabbing incidents.I The police fired 15 rounds to scare away a 10,000-strong mob in the Navapura area. Prior to this, the police had in vain burst over 400 tear-gas shells. After the firing quelled the mob, curfew was clamped in the walled areas and at several other areas like Raopura and jbarts of Karelibaug from where incidents of arson were reported.Barring a stone-throwing incident, nothing untoward happened anywhere in the city since 5 a.m.Three hundred jawans under the command of Col. Rattan joined the local police at 10 a.m. to patrol' the troubled areas. Services of home guards have also been requisitioned.The district collector, Mr. AshokL'hawla, said that ten executive ma-’istrates were accompanying the army-nen who had been provided with eeps. •	......Non-availability of adequate force 'rom the state reserve police was :iled as a major cause for seeking irmy assistance.Confusion marked the manner in vhich the army had been called m.[t was learnt that the police commis* , ;inner, Mr. Jaspal Singh, under a mis- . taken presumption, had-directly written to the army authorities, demanding heir help, while the latter insisted on . i letter from the district, collector in the morning before marching in.The violence oh Saturday had led to the police firing in which seven people were injured. Twenty-three others had been admitted to the SSG hospital with injuries sustained in stone-throwing incidents.Elaborate police bandobust was made yesterday in the trouble-tom areas such as Fatehpura, Ladvada, Ma:dvi and Navapura. A special screening room had been erected on top of the Mandvi Gate (which serves as a Control room) to identify those indulging in arson and looting. .Since curfew was Suddenly clamped after midnight, the people were surprised when .they saw loudspeaker-fitted police jeeps asking them to remain indoors. This led to a scramble for curfew passes at different police stations.	-	_The examinations in all the faculties of M.S. University have been postponed.Arrangements are being made to ensure that milk supply was not affected. Several areas went without milk today.	'The special IGP, CID, Mr. Inderjit Vaishnav, who was sent here by the home minister, visited the riot-affected areas. .Two houses, four shops, three autorickshaws and a motorbike were set on fire by the mobs last night.Different versions are being given for the violence, which apparently broke out when, a Tajia procession passing through Patel Phadia in the Fatehpura area was stoned. The other version is that it was a reaction to the stabbing which occurred on Saturday in which all the victim? were from the same community, . PH adds:Himatnagar: Police lobbed 30 tear* gas shells to disperse crowds which indulged in arson, stoning and looting immediately after the Tazia procession ended1 here on Thursday.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿2 killed in BelgaumThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jun 17, 1992; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 172 killed in BelgaumBELGAUM, June 16. (PTI): Prohibitory orders under section 144 of the Cr. PC., were promulgated here for 48 hours beginning today following renewed violence in which four persons were stabbed, two fatally, since last night.Tension gripped the city when a mob which was returning after attending the funeral of a person killed in the stabbing incident last night, turned violent and resorted to stone-throwing.Troops kill 16 LTTE ultrasCOLOMBO, June 16 (PTI): Sri Lankan troops shot dead at least 16 LTTE militants in separate encounters in the troubled northeastern province during last 24 hours, military sources said.Ten militants were killed when commandos attacked an LTTE training camp in the eastern Bat-ticaloa district yesterday.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Army alerted in AhmedabadThe Times of India (1861-current); Dec 12, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1AHMEDABAD, Dec. 11 (UNI & PTI).THE army was asked to stand by in the riot-tom Ahmedabad city from tomorrow morning after day-long violence in which a police head constable was killed by an irate mob and the brother of a constable was stabbed to death. Five people were injured in firing, including two in police firing.Mr H. K. Khan, chief secretary to the Gujarat government said that authorities imposed indefinite curfew in Raikhad, Mirzapur and Shahpur areas of the walled city and deployed home guards in the sensitive areas.Eight people were injured in stab-: bing incidents today and large-scale looting and arson were reported in the disturbed areas, he said.Today’s violence was a sequel to Sunday’s incident in Dariapur area where one person of a particular community was killed in police firing. The members of the community demanded removal of the State Reserve Police (SRP) from the area.In Shahpur area, agitated people set ablaze a chawl opposite Amliwali pole and showered the fire tenders with stones and acid bottles to prevent them from extinguishing the fire, fire brigade sources said.The police said that one person was stabbed on the busy Nehru Bridge this afternoon.Agitated members of a particular community painted unseemly slogans on walls, autorickshaws and buses aggravating tension in the city.The people of the community seemed prepared since morning moving round different areas in groupsforcing the shopkeepers to down their shutters.The chief minister, Mr Chimanbhai Patel, ordered the use of Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (TADA) act against those who force shopkeepers to down their shutters.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Hindu Andolan assailedThe Times of India (J86J-current); Nov 9, 1981; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 7fiindu Andolan assailedBy Our Special CorrespondentPUNE, November 8: Mr. S. M. Joshi, Janata party leader, today criticised the Hindu Ekta Andolan saying that it was trying to revive brahminism in the name of Hindu unity.	_Speaking as the chief guest at a function to observe the 22nd death anniversary of late Mr. Keshavrao Jedhe. the political leader and social reformer of Maharashtra in _ the preindependence era, Mr. Joshi observed that Jedhe was more interested in social reforms than political agitations. He cited many examples of Jedhe’s fight against social inequalities. He regretted that both the ruling party and the opposition were indulging in power politics. fPresiding over the function, Mr.Y. B. Chavan, M.P., exhorted the < writers to bring out a comprehensive biography of Jedhe. He added that Jedhe had revolutionised the Congress party structure in the state, then dominated by a few leaders of the upper class by bringing the vast farmer community into its fold. Mr. Gulabrao Jedhe, former M.P., gave details of Jedhe’s activities.9 die in AP lorry mishapHYDERABAD, November 8 (PTI):Nine persons were killed and 19 others injured when a lorry in which they were travelling overturned in Guntur district bn Friday last, according to a delayed Teport reaching the police headquarters here.The report said that 38 persons were being taken in the lorry from Tummalapothur village to Addalasani village to caste their votes in the election to the co-operative land development bank.	.The injured, including the driver, have been admitted to hospital, the report said.Ban in Ujjain town following' clashUJJAIN, November 8 (UNI): Prohibitory orders under section 144 Cr.P. C. were clamped for 48 hours on the district town of Shajapur in Ui-jain division following a clash between two communities last night.The deputy inspector-general of police, Mr. M. L. Jain, who was camping at Shajapur, told UNI on the trunk telephone that three people were injured in the clash, which took place after a stone was thrown at a procession of one of the communities.. Four people had so far been arrested in connection ■with the clash. More arrests were being made, the DIG said.The situation there was now completely normal, he added.CITY WEDDING : The governor of Maharashtra, Mr. O, P. Mehra, and the chief minister, Mr. A. R. Antulay, were among those who attended a Te-ception held in Bombay on Sunday by the former Tamil Nadu governor, Mr.K.	K. Shah, to celebrate a twin wedding in his family.	_His son Prakash Shah, married Janaki, daughter of Mr. Deepak Master on Friday, and his daughter, Geeta Shah, was married to Janak Himatlal Talsania on Saturday.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Communal amity suffers a dentVINOD MISHRA The Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Dec 16, 1992; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 13By VINOD MISHRA that time. He served an egg each t( rp, ™	„	. them. The three left the plaaThe Times of India News Service eating eggs. Soon one of them cam<PATNA, December 1! again and demanded two mor< eggs. He was obliged. This timeEKANGARSARAI, a small! Nathun, demanded money for f.v<JC/town, located 19 km west of' e^S'Biharsharif, district headequarters;1 Nathun was told by the person of Nalanda, was an exemplary Pramod, who according tc example of communal amity till! Mohammad Yunus, son of the Sunday as it had never witnessed! victim, had a criminal antecedents any kind of riots since Indepen- to follow him. Pramod went be Hpnn>	hind a “Gumti”, about two yard!Hindus lived peacefully with away from the egg stall. In a reflex Muslims. During a number of com- action, Pramod attacked him wit! munal riots which this district a knife thrice at throat, in the bad witnessed during the past, Hindus: and in the fingers. Nathun becamt protected lives and property of' unconscious and fell down, Yunui Muslims by even taking to arms to told this reporter in the PMCf thwart the attempts of rioters. where his father is being treated.The communal frenzy which! Again, reminding the old friend' engulfed the whole country after the Ayodhya developments came as a bolt for this peace loving town.When Nathun Mian, a petty egg-seller, fell prey to it. It was around 7 p.m. that three youths came to him and asked for eees. It was ouiteship between the two communities, Yunus, who sat beside the bed of his father along with his wife, Mehrun Khatun, said it was Sarfu Mia and Arjun Sahu (both shopkeepers) who picked up Nathun and rushed him to Ekangarsarai police station. He was immediately rushed to the Nalanda Sadar hospital, says Yunus. Officials rendered all kind of help and even provided a jeep of the police station to shift him to the PMCH. They reached Patna at 10 p.m.At the PMCH, it was all mess till, the chief minister, Mr Laloo Prasad Yadav, visited Nathun. Immediately, a fresh bedsheet and blanket were given. Then came medicines; About six doctors visited Nathun, whose entire neck and head werewrapped in bandage. Doctors advice blood (A +) for Nathun. Even after visiting blood centre for more than five times and the chief minister’s assurance of all help, blood was not provided till 2.30 p.m., complains Yunus. The chief minister handed over Rs 5,000 in cash for pursuing Nathun’s treatment.When asked, Nathun painfully recounted what happened on Sunday. “I always lived peacefully and I love peace. Yunus says: “we are five brothers, two away in Goa. They have yet not been informed about it. Where is the time? What really hurts Yunus in that the old tradition of communal amity at Ekangarsarai has been broken. But, still he believes that once his father is recovered they will again live peacefully.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Shiv Sainiks held on rioting chargeOur Staff ReportersThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 2, 1974; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 3CITY & SUBURBSBy Our Staff ReportersTHE Mulund police ai rested 15 people, 11 of them Shiv Sainiks'. on cross-complaints' of rioting on Monday. The four others were said to be former Shiv Sainiks.	.The police said that previous cji ■ mity between the two groups led u the rioting in which three peonli ■ ■were injured, the groups used aerat ed water bottles and iron bars Among the arrested were two sliakht pramukhs.The city police also arrested 5'. people from Sun Mill Lane ot charges of rioting in which a Gana pad procession and the dwellers o. a chavvl clashed. Two persons sus tained minor injuries.The police also registered a cas< of rioting against nine unidentifiec men who were stated to have t’nrowr aerated water bottles at anothei Ganpati procession on Lamingtot Road. , .Death after injectionA six-year-old girl. Kamini Situ-rem Jadhav, who was given ar injection of streptomycin, collapsec and later died, the Jogeshwari police told the coroner, Mr. H. J. Chinoy on T uesday.	'	. ■	'_ The police took charge of the injection ampoules and the case papei from Dr. Suresh Tendolkar.Passenger murdered ■A 25-year-old passenger in a Bombay-bound train was found murdered on the track between Safala and Kelwa Road station on September 20.The body had knife injuries on the neck and head. Two tickets with the names, S. K. Dube and Ramdutta, written on them were found in the shirt pocket, the police said. The identity of the man has not yet been	established.Police denialThe police said on Tuesday that Shaikh Mubarak Abdul Rahman, 25, an undertrial.	was taken	to	theSion Hospital	on September	26when he complained of breathlessness and vomiting in the lock-up.He was admitted to the hospital and later died there. The coroner's surgeon, w'ho	performed	the	postmortem, certified that he died of toxemia following- purulent meningitis.^ a natural cause of death. The police denied that the undertrial died of beating.* * *All the slaughtering units at the Deonar abattoir will remain dosed on Wednesday for Mahatma Gandhi Jayanti. No fresh meat will, therefore, be available on Thursday in the city markets.Colaba and Santa Crux, recorded no rain on Tuesday. The season's rainfall total is 2.310.8 nun., 611.9 mm. above normal, at Colaba and1.939.8	mm.. 555.5 nun. below normal, at Santa Cruz.The maximum temperature at Colaba on Tuesday was 32 degrees. C. a degree above normal, the minimum 25 degrees C., two degrees above normal, and the relative humidity was 80 per cent, at5.30	p.m.	’The maximum temperature at Santa Cruz was 31 degrees C. two degrees below normal, the minimum.-25 degrees C., two degrees above normal, and the relative humidity was 80 per cent, at 5.30 p.m.Mr. A. V. B. Mudaliar, until recently deputy commissioner of police, Nagpur, superintendent, railway police, Nagpur, and commandant, State Reserve Police, Jalna, Aurangabad district, has taken over as deputy commissioner of police (armed force), Bombay,The weatherBombay city and suburbs will have cloudy skies on Wednesday, Thunder-clouds are likely to develop towards the night.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿City situation unstable: CMBalakrishnan, SThe Times of India (J86J-current); May 21, 1984; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Bv S. BALAKRISHNANBOMBAY, May 20.A STRONG plea for the deploy-.ment of the army in the trouble spots of Greater Bombay was made by a number of participants at a meeting of the state-level committee of the national integration council today. t ^ ^ ^lhe participants, including TuC congress (S) president and leader of the opposition, Mr- Sharad' Pawar, Dr. Rafiq -Zakaiia,. Mr.. Datta Me-: ghe, Congress (S) legislator, Mr. Ut-tamrao Patilj Mr,. Rara Naik (BJP), Mir. P. K. Patil, Mrs.. Pramilla Dan-davate (Janata) pointed out to the chief minister, Mr.. Vasantrao Patil, who presided over the meeting, that the situation in Bhiwandi was brought under control after the, army was moved into the town. They observed that army deployment was necessary to avert a deterioration in the law and order situation in the metropolis.	VMr. Patil told newsmen after the meeting that the situation in the city was “unstable.” However, he felt that the - police would be able to handle it. Official sources felt that anti-social ^elements would now try to concentrate their efforts in .Bombay. A top source in the home department stated that the Shiv Sainiks were not in a mood to obdy their chief, Mr, Bal Thackeray’s instructions. This was evident as the Sainiks continued to urge shopkeepers to down shutters and even urged autorickshaw-drivers in a number of suburbs today to take their vehicles off the roads despite a categorical appeal against such actions by Mr. Thackeray yesterday.	'	- ' ;REPORTS DOUBTEDThe chief minister also expressed his doubts over the veracity of reports about the Anjurphata .incident at Bhiwandi yesterday. The reports had it that-, the 20 victims; were among those who had taken shelter in the bungalow owned by a local industrialist, Mr. Ansari. Mr. Patil noted that all the badly-burnt bodies were found in the bungalow compound and not in the gutted bungalow itself. The grass on which the bodies were discovered was not burnt giving rise to speculation that they may have been placed there.A senior police official' has1 been asked to inquire into the incident and! submit a report expeditiously. He added that the identities of none of the victims have been.established. He reiterated that the victims of this horrendous incident numbered 20. .Mr. Patil claimed that the situation in Bhiwandi, where both the army and the police were involved in peace-keeping operations, was under control -and since 3.00 p.m. yesterday no incidents were reported.. The army has' been deployed- in Thane town also, he added, but declined to state1 its strength.	>,	■About 60 of the 80 members of the national integration committee attended the meeting held at Mantra-laya. They included ministers of slate for home, Mr. Shivajirao Deshmukh and Mr. Vilasrao Deshmukh, ministers, Mr. S. M. I. Aseer, Mr. Azhar Hussain, Mr. Shivajirao Patil-Nilan-gekar,, Mr. R. R. Bhole, M.P. and legislators, Mr. C. D. Oommachen,N.	D. Patil, Mr., Pramod Navalkar, Manohar Joshi, Mr. C. M. Sharma, Mr. Anupchand Shah and Mr. B. A. Desai. The Union deputy minister for information and broadcasting, Mr. Ghulam Nabi Azad, and the A1CC general secretary, Mr. Chandulal Chandrakar, attended the meeting as special invitees.Some of the speakers demanded a judicial inquiry into the riots, butContinued on Page 9 Column 6Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.City situation.	w	■Continued from Page 1 Column 5this was opposed by a section of the participants, including the chief minister.	.Earlier, the Union home minister, Mr. P. C. Sethi, toured Bhiwandi along with Mr. Patil and the MPCC president, Mr. N. M. Kamble, _ Mr. Sethi said he would submit his report to the Prime Minister.Mr. Sethi declined to state anything further. In the afternoon, Mr. Azad and Mr. Vilasrao Deshmukh toured Phydonie, Byculla, Bhendi Bazar. Girgaum and other areas in a private car, accompanied by this reporter..Mr. Azad noted that a number of shops were open, bur an equal number of them were shut in the same localities. Policemen posted at various points en route were caught unawares when Mr. Deshmukh stopped the cur near them and made inquiries. At Musafirkhana near Phule Markov, officials pointed out to the building from which shots were fired at policemen A sub-inspector said the building premises were searched, but no firearms were found. Only some brickbats and aerated water bottles were seized.A' number of legislators, have complained to. Mr. Patil and the home department about inadequate bando-bast in sensitive spots.■Late last night, when this reporter toured Nagpada, Phydonie, Doneri, Bhendi, Bazar and other areas police presence was not proportionate to the grave situation prevailing in these localities. For example, a sensitive spot like Nagpada junction was manned only by a few lathi-weilding constables.Sub-inspector Sanjay Kadam, patrolling Maulana Shaukat Ali Road said 1 men from other police stations were being rushed to the affected parts. Senior officials, including. the commissioner, Mr. J. F, Ribeiro, additional' commissioner, Mr. N. C. Venkatachalam, and deputy commissioners, Mr. R. S- Sharma and Mr. P. S. Pasricha, were constantly supervising the bandobast. By this afternoon, security arrangements had been beefed up further and a large number of pickets, including constables armed with ,303 rifles, could be seen even in the riot-hit “mohallas.”As the chief minister put it, the aim was to remove fear gripping the minds of the minority community. He rejected a demand from some of his partymen for city wide curfew.Meanwhile, there are considerable discrepancies in official briefing of the riot situation and information gathered independently. For instance, the special secretary, home, Mr. B. 1C. Chougule, said there were no casualties in the rioting at Govandi this afternoon whereas eyewitnesses stated that five persons were killed. The. chief minister today called onthe governor, Mr. I. H. Latif, at Raj Bhavan to apprise him of the riot situation.Present at the discussions were the Union deputy minister for information. and broadcasting, Mr. Gulam Nabi Azad, and the pradesh Congress president, Mr. N. M. Kamble.About 50 per cent electorate bad voted in Thana Gazi in Rajasthan where Mr. Dhuni Lai of the Congress and Mr. Shiv Narayan of BJP are the main contenders in a six-cornered contest.In Tauro in. Haryana, where the opposition barring the BJP are supporting'Mr. Tayyab Hussain, a rebel Congress M.P. contesting on the Congress (Jagjivan) ticket, the. electorate showed keen interest with around 70 per cent polling despite inteinse heat. The Congress has put up Mr. Khursheed Ahmed in the predominantly Muslim constituency.. In Uttar Pradesh, brisk polling .vas (reported	from Maliahbad	on	theoutskirts of Lucknow 'with 60 Der cent electorate casting their votes. But in Jakhania in Ghazipur district, the turnout was only .40 per cent.The Pragpura (reserved) constituency in'the hill state of Himachal Pradesh reported one of the heaviest polling with	an	estimated	75	percent recording their choice.VOTING SUSPENDEDHydrabad, (TOINS):	Violencemarked polling in the Asifnagar assembly by-election in central Hyderabad today, with a few. instances of arson and looting reported. Voting had to be suspended for some time in Afzal Sagar area and was resumed on the intervention of the police.	'	.The turn-out was estimated' at between 60	and	.70	per cent	in	bothAsifnagar and Machilipatnam constituencies, with women' voters out-mumbering men. There was brisk polling throughout the day.The police said 17 people were injured in clashes at various polling booths in Asifnagar. They seized 6ome arms and arrested some miscreants for unlawful assembly and ■rioting. Two scooters were reported burnt and some houses ransacked by a mob in the Habib Nagar police area.Counting will .begin tomorrow morning and the results are expected by the afternoon.	.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew in Ahmedabad extended: The Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Dec 7, 1970; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1Curfew in Ahmedabad extended‘The Times of India” News Sen iceAHMEDABAD. December 6: The cui-i'cw imposed on the Dariapur area lieVe on Saturday night after violent incidents has been extended till 7.a.m. tomorrow. The curfew was to end at mid-night today.	’The police said the situation in the troubled area was under control. Life was normal in other parts of the city.The police have rounded up 190 “anti-social” people and arrested 94 for violating the curfew. They have registered cases against IS people for rioting. ■These measures arc implied to include the seizure of stocks.The permit system reintroduces the rationing of cotton which had been resorted to tjvo or three years ago when a similar cotton famine prevailed.,	.At its meeting tomorrow, the Cotton Textile Consultative Board is expected to review the entire cotton supply position, both indigenous and imported.COMPARABLE POSITIONThe hoard, which represents the textile industry, cotton trade, including the newly set up Cotton Corporation of India, and the government, is expected to be given a comparable position of the cotton availability now and what it had been last year.The Ministry of Foreign Trade is expected to spell out the measures it proposes to take to deal with the crisis and regulate further supplies of cotton.It is expected to strongly disapprove of the suggestion' for the block closure of mills made by some industrialists. Such a move would seriously hit India’s textile exports and increase the prices further.—P.T.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿14 hurt in riot near RatnagiriA Staff ReporterThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jul 15, 1992; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 514 hurt in riotnearRatnagiriBy A Staff ReporterBOMBAY, July 14: Fourteen people were injured in stone* throwing and eight houses were burnt in a clash between two communities at Dabhol in Ratnagiri district yesterday.Police sources said the trouble started when one boy fired pelletts at another boy and injured him' over previous enemity. The police first resorted to a lathi-charge and then fired three rounds in the air. No one was injured in the police firing.	,Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Ganesh Chaturthi Festivities: HIGH PRICES NO DETERRENTA Staff ReporterThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 4, 1962; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 7A huge image of Ganpati at Lai Baug, the biggest centre of community worship in Greater Bombay. The image was fashioned inthe area itself. Shiva and Parvati are on their “Nartdi Vahan” with Gannati nearby. A party of “Iczim” players is in front.Ganesh Chaturthi FestivitiesHIGH PRICES NO DETERRENTBy A Staff ReporterGanesh Chaturthi, one ot the main festivals in Maharashtra, was celebrated by the Hindus of Bombay on Monday with great joy and feasting.The slight increase in the price of sugar did not appear to have bothered the housewife. The usual array of sweetmeats offered as “prasad” to the elephant-headed God of wisdom and prosperity, before the devotees partook of them, enriched the fare in every household.The normal supply ol whole milk helped to keep up the spirit of the festivities. The seasonal rise in fruit and flower prices had little effect on the celebrations. The lavishness for which the festival is known was maintained everywhere.Hundreds of processions carrying clay models of Ganpati ‘were taken out.Pujas were offered to invoke the blessings of Vigneswara. The idols will eventually be immersed in the sea after three, seven or ten days.CULTURAL PROGRAMMESMore than 500 organisations are holding special cultural programmes spread over many days in connection with the festival. It was Lokamanya Tilak who advocated the celebration of Ganesh Chaturthi as a national festival to bring out the artistic talent among the people, apart from making it an occasion for joy and merriment, It has become a popular event since thenThis year, owing to an increase in the cost of materials and high labour charges, there has been a smaller number of idols. The shortage has been made up by the wide range of varieties with an equally impressive range of motifs the craftsman so deftly has given expression to. Where an individual could not bear the expenses of installing a clay model, he sponsored one in collaboration with his relatives.Community woiship and celebrations are on a much greater scale this year than in the previous years.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿50 Hurt In Clashes In Allahabad: SEQUEL TO QUARREL BETWEEN STUDENTS & SHOPKEEPERThe Times of India (1861-current); Nov 11, 1957; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg. 750 Hurt In Clashes InAllahabadSEQUEL TO QUARREL BETWEENSTUDENTS & SHOPKEEPERALLAHABAD, November 9.J^IFTY persons, including 30 students, were injured in aclash today between university students and some shopkeepers of Katra—one of the principal marketing centres of AllahahaHSix persons were arrested by the police on a charge of hurling brickbats.vjH?. Shop in rvStia area was looted, while another was considerably damaged.The students were stated to have raided a cinema house and set flue to the front portion of the building.Shops in the Katra area remained closed today following a clash between a group of university students and shopkeepers last night. The trouble is reported to have originated over theIt was addressed by the ViceChancellor as well as the District Magistrate. The students were informed that Lakshmi Talkies would not function until the Vice-Chancellor agreed to it. In fact the proprietor himself had given an assurance to this effect. The processionists assured the Vice-Chancellor and the District Magistrate that they would disperse peacefully, but it appears that a substantial section proceeded to the Katra market.	'There are allegations and counter allegations which arereturn of a sold electric table being inquired into. The students lamp. The police were patrolling allege that while their procession the area and the situation was was going' peacefully through stated to be under control at Katra market brickbats werethrown at them while Katra people allege that students collectedmidnight.DETAILS OF INCIDENTA press note issued by the District Magistrate, Mr. J. M. Raina, tonight said: “Two- university students went to return a table lamp, purchased bv them a week earlier, yesterday at about 7-30 p.m. to the shop of one Shambhu Lai as the bulb was defective. After some dis-at the shop of Shabhu Lai where trouble had taken place yesterday.EXCHANGE OF BRICKBATSThe ultimate result was a free exchange of brickbats between the processionists and the residents of Katra. The police and The magistracy, includingcussion it was agreed that the .the District Magistrate and the shopkeeper would take back the Senior Superintendent of Police, lamp, but he insisted that the arrived on the scene and brought sales tax amounting to 11 annas ^he situation under control. should be paid by the students “While the police were busy who declined on the ground that with the main trouble in Katra a proper receipt had not been market a strong contingent of given.	this procession reached LakshmiDuring this argument the Talkies and set fire to the front shopkeeper is alleged to have Portion of the building.' The p’o-slapped one of the students-who bcemen present there were un-went to his hostel and came back fortunately outnumbered. It is with 100 students whose number a^so alleged that the students later swelled to 1,000. Meanwhile, damaged a recorder machine va-the Proctor, some teachers of hied at about Rs. 10,006. Fortu-the University, the D.S.P. and nately, the fire was brought the City Magistrate reached the under control quickly although spot.	efforts were madg to prevent theOn the one hand it is alleged f*re brigade engine from reach-that the students damaged the j in£ tlle cinema despite the per-shop of Shambhu Laflast night sonal requests of the Vice-Chan-an'd on the other hand it is al- ...........leged. that brickbats were thrown “At- the same time it is also on the students by Katra people sieged that the shop of Messrs, when they were dispersing ’Chowdhry and Sons (the pro-peaoefuUv. Somb students were P'rietor happens to be a univer-howr-or, injured. A case under Section 323147 I.P.C. was registered and is being investigated. Prosecution will ’ be launched against persons against whom a case is made out. Four persons were, arrested last night in this connection.”v MAIN DEMANDThe Press note continued: A meeting was held at the University Union today at 1-30 p'm. in which the main demand was that Lakshmi Talkies should be closed down until the charges of the students against this cinema were investigated. The meeting was followed by a procession which reached the District Magistrate’s house at 2-45 p.m.sity student) was looted and considerable damage caused to the shop of Shambhu Lai.“All kinds of false rumours were set afloat, including one that two students had died, and that injuries had been caused to the Vice-Chancellor, the Proctor and .about 150 students. Inquiries show that there is no foundation for these rumours, but there is no doubt that about 25 to 30' students and about 20 members of the public were'injured. Six persons were arrested when found throwing brickbats.The press note added: “Heavy patrolling is continuing and will continue so long as it is necessary. Reports lodged are being investigated.—P.T.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Schools reopen in AhmedabadThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jul 9, 1985; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Che Tfmet «f Into Newt ServiceAHMEDABAD, July 8.Nadiad town in Kaira district on clamped there following violent inci-M°SMonday. The fire was put out before much damage was caused to theof the schools from stocks> accordin8 to » P°Uc« Tt^°n0^( me scn°°is, trom Kceived in Ahmedabad.‘	‘ to higher ,The reopening of the schools was'	~ seen as a major step towards resto-ration of normalcy in the trouble-torn state.	.The thin attendance today was expected, as apart from a “class-boycott” call from anti-reservationists, the chief minister, Mr. Amairsinhthesecondary ' level, reopened in Ahmedahad today after the forced four-month-long “summer vacation.” Attendance, however, was said to be thin.-*te ravracnana samiti ana metfBBfjjhnii to Ka a* holiday to students in celebration of•fttMMmnmtiaiiists posted pickets schools biSHOPS SET ABLAZEThe attendance in schoolsia front of some schools but no The attendance in schools in force was applied.	_ Ahmedabad was thin to moderateAn official spokesman said that in Very few students turned up at Ahmedabad 179 out of 201 secondary schools in the troubled walled city *°d higher secondary schools re- and Naranpura area. Several schools, opened. His information was that in mostly English medium ones, hr Baroda, Surat, Surendranagar.Godh- other parts of the city reported about r& and other towns abo; a majority 40 per cent attendance, it was offi-«t the institutions resumed ^ a spokesman for theclasses, cially stated.agitation Shops in some areas of the cityleaden claimed' that the boycott was were closed b response to a call* “total success and it would con tinuetill an “acceptable solution” to the reservation issue was found.The authorities have yet to take a decision on reopening colleges and smvereitijB,Two more people died in group clashes fa Dholka town today where an indefinite curfew was clampeddents on Saturday last was relaxed for four hours on Monday.The Akhil Gujarat Vali Mandal president, Mr. Shankeibhai Patel, said in a statement that the students all over the state had not responded to the government's decision to open educational institutions in the state from Monday. He appealed to parents not to send their children to schools. He also urged new chief minister to find out a solution to the reservation issue.The indefinite strike by the state government employees entered the 32nd day with no solution b sight.Minister sworn im Mr. Amarsinh Waghela was sworn b on Monday morning as minister b the Chaudhary cabinet by the Gujarat governor, Mr. B. K. Nehru, at Raj Bhavan.Mr. Waghela, who could not reach Gandhbagar from his constituency to take oath on Sunday along with the Cbaudhaiy team, has been given portfolios of co-operation, prohibition, ‘	  offrom the Navrachna Samiti to ob- excise and additional charge serve victoiy day to celebrate the labour and employment,(ouster of Mr. Madhavsinh Solanlrifrom chief ministership.The samiti on Monday announced that it would be holding a state-level convention at Baroda on July 12 to thalkuut a programme to intensify the student and youth movementyesterday following violent incidents .fi? rescrv^10n P°lto. resulting fa two deaths.	1 Bandb“ was observed in UpletaMeanwhile army experts were try- Jf™ “	dlstnct, ^ *f11fag to defuse a high^plosive gren- f ™	**	anti^*f*fvatiSnado recovered fromTbuilding adja- fommlttee. pa»ed off peacefully. No cent to * place of worship at Dfaa- tin10*3™ incident was reported from oasbutarm Me yesterday, i	# Pohce said.PTI A UNI add: In Himatnagar, Jn Baroda, the police carried outone peoion was stabbed as! indefinite curfew was relaxed for three hoursfa the aftefiftm. The victim was hos- ft55003 *** anestcd m *“?The situation in Chhota Udepur S^nntimijir town fa Baroda district was reportedSSSTZ ^ indefinite carfew-v ! ' •	•	.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.The finance minister, Mr. Arvind Sanghvi presented a financial statement endorsing the budget presented by the fonmer chief minister, Mr. Madhavsinh Solanki, in the state assembly oq Tuesday last before the house was to start a four-day general discussion on the budget.	.At this'time, the BJP group leader, Mr. Sutah Mehta, got up and asked for speaker’s rulrng as to whether the discussion on the budget presented by earlier government could be taken up by the. house without the governor’s assent.After brief debate on the issue, the speaker, Mr. Natverlal Shah, rejected the point of order raised by Mri Mehta, reserved hip rating on the issue and allowed the discussion on the budfept.'
﻿Soccer Fans Cause Riot At Calcutta: Shops Looted: Two StabbedThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jul 16, 1957; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Soccer Fans Came Riot At CalcuttaShops Looted: Two StabbedCALCUTTA, July 15. Fifty-one persons were injured in clashes between supporters of two rival football, teams on the Calcutta Maidan and the neighbouring Esplanade area this evening.Mounted police posted on the Maidan lathi-charged a number of times to disperse rival sections of the crowd witnessing the match. A few persons caught in the crowd sustained injuries.Originating at the field of play, the trouble took a serious turn immediately after the match was abandoned, and tram and bus services connected with the Esplanade, the fashionable shopping centre, had to be stopped for over two hours and a half.76 ARRESTEDTen of the injured were detained in hospitals. The rest were discharged after first aid. Two cases of krrife injuries were reported. The police rounded up seventy-six persons, in connection with this evening incidents. Normal condition was restored by ten p.m., though precautionary police patrolling of the area continued.A few shops in the Dharam-tola locality were looted.The trouble started when a section of the crowd indulged in catcalling and booing during the match between Mohammedan Sporting and Howrah Union in the Senior Division Football League. There was rough play by some players and a sectionContinued on Page 7 Column 1Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.Match AbandonedContinued from Page 1 Column 3 1of the crowd threw stones and 1 later threatened to invade the field.The match was abandoned five minutes from the end with the Mohammedans leading, four-one. Supporters of the two teams then exchanged brickbats and there was a free for all inside and around the ground.Mounted police posted at the Ma dan then made a lathi charge to disperse the crowd and a number of persons in the crowd were injured.In the other match played todav Rajasthan beat Mohun Bagan by a solitary goal to strengthen their claims for the title.—P T IReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿JNU teachers call off strikeThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 9, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 15JNU teachers call off strikeThe Times of India News ServiceNEW DELHI, September 8: The Jawaharlal Nehru University Teachers’ Association (JNUTA) yesterday decided to call off its strike and announced that teaching would be resumed in the university from September 9.	,in a resolution adopted at its general body meeting, the fNUTA also decided to disaffiliate itself from the All-India Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisations (AIFUCTO), and charged the federation with having betrayed the teachers’ cause.The Jamia Millia Islamia University Teachers Association resolved to continue its strike. At a general body meeting the association rejected the agreement between the AIFUCTO and the government and called for the resignation of the AIFUCTO officer-bearers.	•The Delhi University Teachers Association (DUTA) is scheduled to take a decision on the continuation of the strike at its general body meeting today. The staff associations of the university’s 50-odd colleges held their meetings yesterday, and 15 colleges, whose decisions were declared till the evening, had resolved in favour of continuing the strike.Tension in BelgaumThe Times of India News ServiceBELGAUM, September 8: Tension prevailed in Chikodi and Ramdurg towns near here, as police resorted to a lathi-charge when two groups of people clashed yesterday.The violence reportedly broke out following the stoning of a procession by some miscreants. Ten people were stated to have received injuries.The executive magistrate has clamped prohibitory orders on the town for three days. Police reinforcements have Iwn niched In the areaReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Tripura violence on the riseThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Nov 1, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 7The Times of India News ServiceAGARTALA, October 31. \T HTHIN two years of the W tripartite peace accord ending the decade-long insurgency by the Tripura National Volunteers in September, 1988, the state is heading for a fresh bout of extremist violence. The newly-formed All Tripura Tribal Force is gradually expanding its area of operation.The TUJS president, Mr Shyama Charan Tripura, has alleged that during the past two weeks the rebel group has engaged in extortion of money and abduction of the tribal youths in the Chhawmanu, Main-ama, Malidhar and Rajdhar areas under Kailasahar sub-division in the north district, bordering the Chittagong hill tracts of Bangladesh.On October 22, the ATTF abducted four chakma tribesmen from Malidhargaon panchayat. Three of them managed to return but one Gyanjay Tripura remains untraced.According to Mr Shyama Charan Tripura, who comes from the Main-ama area, the rebels were led by Bikram Jay Rupini, a law graduate from the North-Eastern Hill university and former law secretary of the TNV. When the TNV rebels laid down their arms, Mr Bijoy Hrangkahawl, rebel supremo, told newsmen that Rupini, who hadjoined the TNV in 1987, had died of jaundice in their hideout at Siglum iq the Chittagong hill tracts.Strangely enough in the second week of September, Rupini was seen with 14 ATTF activists at Sin-dhukapara under Kailasahar subdivision of north district. He visited a TUJS leader’s house and then went to Karamcherra along with him. There he is reported to have taken meal at the residence of another TUJS leader.According to eyewitness accounts gathered by Mr Shyama Charan Tripura, Rupini and his accomplices were carrying sophisticated arms and are now engaged in a recruitment drive. Sources said that during the TNV’s surrender in August-Septem-ber, 1988, the rebels did not surrender all their arms and some of these might have gone to Rupini. He was considered to be a hardliner in TUJS politics and fiercely opposed to the peace accord.According to the special branch of the state police, 28 tribal youths from the remote Nathingmanu and Gobin-dabari areas of north district have joined Rupini. These include two former TNV rebels of Thalcherra in Dharmanagar	sub-division,Bartaichhaia Tripura and Johanjay Tripura, who were employed at . the Thalcherra Senior Basic school after being rehabilitated by the state government.Rupini is also reportedly in touchwith the former TNy vice-president, Mr Dhaananjay Tripura, who is at loggerheads with Mr Hrangkhawl.Since his TUJS and TNV days, Rupini is known to be a rabid anticommunist The ATTF gang operating in the west district for the past few months and responsible for killing five Congress-TUJS supporters is known to be in touch with the Gana Mukti Parishad, the tribal front organisation of the CPM. Rupini’s group is reported to have links with die west district unit. This has foxed the intelligence agencies.Sources feel that either Rupini is trying to launch a new outfit or has been able to strike a deal with the ATTF activists in west district, who have been able to set up a rear base at Satcherra in the Sylhet district of Bangladesh opposite Khowai subdivision of west Tripura.Another 60-member extremist gang operating in the Amrapur subdivision of south district, led by Trinayan Jamatya, is also known to be in league with the ATTF'and has been able to find a sanctuary across the border in the Chittagong hill tracts.However, there is no indication that the Bangladesh government is involved in backing the fledgling rebel outfit. Meanwhile, the state government is tightening security measures to deal with the new threat.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Violence unabated in Rohtas distThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Aug 22, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 22Violence unabated in Rohtas dist.The Times of India News ServiceSASARAM, August 21: Incidents of arson, violence nd stabbing con* tinued unabated despite the impost* tion of dusk-to-dawn curfew in this stife-torn town of RohtaS district, With the recovery of a body at Dhankaraha village, near here, today the toll since the outbreak of violence on August 17 has gone up to six< The Patna divisional commissioner, Mr N. K. Sinhsu told this correspondent that the curfew orders would remain in force till further orders. Scrfar, 165 people had been arrested.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Dhoraji mob fired on: many hurtOur Staff CorrespondentThe Times of India (1861-current); Jun 14, 1981; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1RAJKOT, June 13.THE police today fired several rounds to quell a violent crowd which went on the rampage, looting shops and setting fire to property in the taluka town of Dhoraji, about 80 km. from here.Though official sources were tightlipped, half a dozen people were understood to have sustained gun-shot injuries, unofficial source said. They were understood to have been removed to hospitals in the neighbouring district headquarters. One of them was brought and admitted to a hospital here.The trouble erupted, the police said, when a 2,000-strong procession of a minority community going to the house of the: M.P., Mr. Ramji Mavani, to protest against the removal of some bricks kept near their holy place by the municipality turned violent and went on the rampage, looting shops, attacking property and setting fire to vehicles.The violent crowd set fire to asmany as 26 buildings, including a dispensary, a hotel and a high school, the police said.The district collector, Mr. Vinod Babbar, and the district superintendent of police, Mr. K. R. Kaushik, rushed to the town with SRP reinforcements to bring the situation under control. In the melee and stone-throwing, 25 policemen were understood to have been injured.	,Police sources were tight-lipped and queries at the police control here elicited the reply that they had no information barring the preliminary report. This came as a surprise to newsmen since the rural police control here was understood to be in wireless contact with Dhoraji.According to another version available here, a crowd had collected near a prominent place in the town in the morning , and had assaulted the municipal president. Later in the day, it turned violent setting fire to some shops. The attacking crowd then went into Nadi Bazar, the grain market of the town, and looted shops.‘Blanks’ fired at Queen ElizabethLONDON, June 13 (AP): A man fired “several blanks” at Queen Eliza* beth II as she rode on horseback before thousands of spectators in a colourful ceremony In London today, but the queen was not hurt and the man was seized, Scotland Yard said.The man was not identified. The police said detectives were interrogating the man. but said so far he had given no motive.The monarch’s horse reared at the noise, startling her, but the Queen controlled the horse as the police and soldiers ran up from all sides.Initial. reports said the man fired six sljots from: an airgun at the 55-year-old monarch, but Scotland Yard said the man fired blanks from a ‘ good replica handgun”, a realistic copy of a pistol that can be adapted tc fire. v *Tile, incident occurred as the Queen, accompanied by her husband, Prince Philip, and the Heir to the throne, Prince Charles, were riding from the palace to the Horseguard’s parade for the annual royal inspection of the British army’s crack Guards Regiments in a ceremony known as “the trooping of the colour,” held to mark the Queen’s official birthday on June 13.	'	■Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿5 killed,100 hurt in AurangabadThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); May 18, 1988; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 15 killed,100 hurtinAurangabadAURANGABAD, May 17.FIVE people were killed and 100 injured in group clashes on the eve of Id here today. Curfew was clamped from 1 p.m., following incidents of arson, stabbing and stone-throwing.Violence erupted in the Gulmandi Chowk, near Nehru Bhavan, in the town in the afternoon. Several shops and vehicles were damaged in the arson.Police patrolling in the city has been intensified to maintain law and order.PTI adds: While it is still not known what sparked violence, earlier in the day, the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court adjourned to May 24, hearing on a writ petition filed by a Shiv Sena corporator.The petition had challenged the legality of the May 6 meeting of the Aurangabad municipal corporation which elected the Congress nominee, Dr Shantaram Kale, as the city's first mayor after a walkout by the Sena members.Sources said that the situation was now being brought under control.The Maharashtra government has issued a state-wide alert and issued instructions to police force on the law and order situation on the eve of Id festival tomorrow in view of the tension prevailing in some parts of the state.When contacted by reporters the chief minister, Mr Chavan, said today’s incidents at Aurangabad were between two groups.“I was anticipating it and had given very clear instructions asking every body to be alert all over the state”, he said.	.Our staff reporter in Bombay adds: Speaking to reporters, here, he said the police were maintaining a close watch over anti-social elements in sensitive places.Mr Chavan said that the violence in Pune recently was the outcome of “some kind of conspiracy.” He refused to elaborate on the details of the controversy, unless substantial proof was gathered. But the modus operandi of the trouble-makers clearly pointedto a conspiracy, he averred.The chief minister said that the investigation into the charges against the Shiv Sena chief, Mr Bal Thackeray, were still in progress.	,While conceding that the investigation was “taking a long time”, he said that the police were being allowed to proceed according to the due process of law. No time limit had been fixed for completing the investigation, he said.A case had been registered against Mr Thackeray after he had announced a call for an economic boycott of Sikh businessmen, allegedly aiding terrorists.	;Mr Chavan today said that outcome of an election was always a result of collective efforts and no single person could be blamed for the defeat of a party.	'Reacting sharply to the allegation made by the former chief minister, Mr Vasantrao Patil, that Mr Chavan Was responsible for the defeat of the Congress Party in Aurangabad municipal election, he observed, “Mr Patil can only criticise me.” .“1 am open for discussion. I do not know why Mr Patil airs his grievances publically,” he said.	rReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Two hurt in firingThe Times of India (J86J-current); May 5, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 9AHMEDABAD, May 4 (PTI): Two persons, including a 30-year old woman, wire injured as the police opened lire to disperse rival groups throwing stones at each other at Bhenderi Pole in the Kalupur area of old Ahmedabad tonight.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Stabbing Incidents In Hooghly Mill Areas: SIXTEEN PERSONS DEADThe Times of India (1861-current); Mar 27, 1950; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1SIXTEEN PERSONS DEADCALCUTTA, March 26.jglXTEEN persons are reported to have been killed in stabbingincidents in the Serampore mill areas in Hooghly District today. There were also several cases of arson and looting.Fifty-four persons were arrested and the police also recovered about 100 bombs from a lorry plying on the road near one of the mills in Rishra abouttwo miles from Serampore.The police fired two rounds to disperse a riotous mob but no one is reported to have been injured as a result of firing.A Muslim and his servant werei	arrested at Serampore today following, an explosion in his house. The police searched the room and recovered a few unexploded bombs.The Commiseioner of Police of Calcutta has prohibited the sale of ammunition and gun-powder by licensed dealers in the city till further orders in view of recent instances of unauthorised use of ammunition. *Mr. Amrita Lai Chatterjee, President of the All-Bengal Dislodged Minorities Association, has been served with an order directing him to leave the municipal area of Calcutta and its suburbs immediately.Arrangements have been made by Government whereby persons in West Bengal may remit funds to their families or near relatives in distress in East Bengal as a result of the' recent communal troubles, announces a West Bengal Government press note.Train services in the Howrah-Amta, Howrah-Shaikhola and How-rah-Chapadanga sections of the Martin light railways remained suspended since Sunday, due to disturbed conditions existing- along the railway routes. Only threee down trains arrived in Howrah in the morning on Sunday.Mr. Mohan Lai Saxena, Minister for Rehabilitation, Government of India, arrived in Calcutta today from Delhi.Accompanied by the West Bengal Congress President Mr. S. M. Ghosh, Mr. Saxena visited the Sealdah station and met the refugees there.— P.T.I. & U.P.I.Border Area IncidentRANAGHAT, March 26: Workmen, engaged in the construction of the border road at Kulgachi under Kaliganj police station, were attacked on Saturday by a Muslim mob of about 2,000. Several persons were injured and two killed.:Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Six more killedPRAKASH JOSHI The Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); May 19, 1988; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 1By PRAKASH JOSHI The Times of India News ServiceAURANGABAD, May 18.THE Maharashtra government today issued shoot-at-sight orders to tne police as many parts of this curfew-bound city continued to reel under communal violence for the second consecutive day.According to PTI: Six persons wen killed in stabbings and subsequeni police firing today, taking the death rot m the violence which broke out hen yesterday to 11.Over 600 persons were taken int< custody since yesterday.The chief minister, Mr S. B. Chavan today held a meeting of the peaq committee along with the minister oi state for home, Mr J. T. Mahajan, anc appealed to the people to maintairpeace.Curfew was relaxed from 8 a.m. tc 11 am. in view of Ramzan Id. However, the violence escalated after the curfew was reimposed and 72 stabbing incidents were reported from several sensitive parts of the city, including Gulmandi and Aurangapura. Accord* ing to reports, stray incidents were also reported from Bidkni village, where the “gram-panchayat” is controlled by the Shiv Sena.The trouble began yesterday when a group of Shiy Sainiks returned from the high court which had reserved its decision on the plea against election ol the mayor. Riots began at noon and spread like wildfire in thickly-populated areas of the city. The police did not move for two hours, when the major part of the damage was done.The police reported ten major fires action against persons who had openly in the city today. A large oil depot was said they would set Aurangabad on fire, gutted.	The local MLA, Mr A Motiwala, saidMr Chavan reviewed the situation he had met Mr J. T. Mahajan at with the special inspector-general of Mantralaya last week and apprised him police (law and order), Mr S. P. Singh, of the situation but nothing was done, and ordered that stem action be taken Chaos prevailed at the government fiffiinsf trouble-makers.	hospital and no ambulances for carry-A total of 212 persons were arrested ing the injured were available. Rela-by the police on a charge of arson and lives of the injured complained of six more for attempted murder. House- shortage of blood at the hospital, to-house searches were conducted by Newsmen also had a hard time as the police and Rampuri knives, swords curfew passes were not issued to themand other weapons were seized	Continued on page 3Several tounsts were stranded at the airport, railway station and ST bus stands, as no vehicles were available.Mr Chavan has accepted a suggestion to ban the entry into Aurangabad city of leaders of communal organisations inciting violence. He said similar entry bans would be imposed on such leaders in other sensitive parts of the state.The state government will listen to the tape-recorded conversation at a meeting of Shiv Sena leaders here and will accordingly take action.The total Mure of the state administration, particularly of the police, in dealing with the violence was criticised by leaders of all political parties. They accused the police of “criminal negligence”.The situation on the day of the municipal elections on April 17 was equally explosive, but the police had then handed it with a firm hand.Yesterday no adequate arrangements were made even dough people were openly talking in court about the likely eruption of violence.Mr Sahebrao Dongaonkar, Congress MP from Aurangabad, demanded stemReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.Condoned from Page 1after reimposition of the curfew. Th< Central Telegraphic Office (CTO) waj also hot working.PTI adds; The police said 50 round; .were fired in all to disperse the mob: indulging in assault, arson and lootingThe firing took place at the Roshai Gate, and Baijipura areas during the four-hour curfew relaxation period this morning.Oar staff reporter in Bombay adds: There were no repercussions to the communal flare-up in Aurangabad in the city and suburbs. The situation was under total control, Mr V. 1C Saraf police commissioner, said.He said immediate precautions and arrangements had been taken as soon as the police intelligence received information of communal riots breaking out in Aurangabad.Though the city and suburbs have had no history of communal flare-ups on Id days, a quick assessment was made and extreme precautionary measures taken to avert any untoward incidents.The police strength at vulnerable points and dense Muslim localities were beefed up especially along Mohammed Ali road, Nagpada, Agripada and other Muslinwlomi-nated areas of the city.Heaivy patrolling of places where large congregations assembled for prayers like at Anjuman-e-Islam high school grounds and Azad maidan was carried out in the morning by detachments of the police and the SRP.MrSarafsaid 3,500 additional police personnel were deployed to the normal availability of 15,900 men. Besides, four SRP companies (120 men in eachcompany) were also drafted for ban-dobast duty.2ND BANDH (UNI from Kolhapur): The silver industry town of Hupari, 30 km from here, observed a bandh for the second successive day yesterday in protest against police lathi-charges on innocent people on Saturday.The clahses between rival groups were sparked off by a religious dispute. The police used lathi-charge to disperse the warring groups.Thirty-four persons were arrested on Saturday and Sunday. They were brought before the magistrate on Monday and remanded in custody for seven days.The Shiv Sena called for the bandh in Hupari today also to protest against the police lathi-charge and to demand the unconditional release of those arrested.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Gujarat violence unabatedThe Times of India (J86J-current); Apr 27, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 13Gujarat violence unabatedBARODA, April 26: Four persons were injured in police firing in C'hhipwad locality of the curfcw-bound city police station area today, reports PTI.In Juni Ghadhi area, the police fired one round to disperse a mob indulging in arson and stone-throwing.The police said violent incidents were also reported in Koyali Faliya,Falhepura and other localities of the curfew-bound area.The four injured were removed to the SSG hospital here, the police added.Additional police reinforcements have been rushed to the area, which has been under indefinite curfew since midnight Tuesday last without relaxation.Ahmedabad: Stray incidents of violence where reported from Surat and Ankleshwar during the last 24 hours.The curfew imposed in Surat and Ankleshwar was relaxed during the day, the police said.In Surat, one shop was set on fire by a violent mob and glass panes of three buses of stale transport were smashed in stone-throwing.The police burst tcargas shells to disperse stone pelting crowds.Four persons were injured when they tried to escape from a house following disturbances in the Varachha area last night.9	Soviet republicsokay sovereigntyMOSCOW, April 26 (PTI):Russian leader, Mr Boris Yeltsin, has said the President, Mr Mikhail Gorbachov, has recognised the sovereignty of nine republics by signing a joint statement with them on Tuesday on “urgent measures to stabilise the situation and overcome the current crisis.Informing the Russian legislature on the signing of the statement, Mr Yeltsin described it as “a great victory, Tass reported.The agency quoted him as saying that the document, proposed by Mr Gorbachov, underwent many changes at the meeting but contained all proposals made by Russia, the hugest Soviet republic.Besides Mr Gorbachov and Mr Yeltsin, the statement was signed by leaders of the Ukraine, Byelorussia,Uzbekistan,	Azerbaijan,Kazakhstan,	Tadzikistan,Kyrghizstan and Turkmenistan.The remaining six republics —Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, Armenia,Georgia and Modlavia — were represented at the meeting as they want independence from the Soviet Union.The joint statement said the signatories recognised the right of the six republics to independently decide whether to sign a new union treaty or not.The CPSU central committee has urged the six republics seeking independence from the Soviet Union to join in the efforts to overcome the current economic crisis.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Clash over religious practices: 1 killedThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jun 2, 1969; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Clash over religious practices: 1 killed“The Times of India** News ServiceCALCUTTA, June 1 : One person was killed in private firing in a clash between two groups of the same community at the Watgunj area in south Calcutta this evening.It is reported that the two groups quarrelled over the interpretation of certain religious practices. In the clash that followed, a hut was set on fire and two people received minor injuries.The police intervened in strength and put down the disturbances. The fire was extinguished by the fire brigade.A person with a gunshot injury was taken to a hospital where he was pronounced dead.Eighteen people have been arrested.The police said there was no tension in the area. Strong police pickets have been posted and the po* lice is patrolling the locality.Police rescue foremen from gheraoCALCUTTA. May 31: Two offi cials of the Durgapur steel plani who had been under a “gherao” for se^en hours by a section of workers of (he billet mill, were rescued by the police early yesterday morning.The officials—a general foreman and a foreman—were taken out of detention on the strength of a court warrant, according to information received at the police headquarters.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿One dies, 100 hurt in clashesThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 29, 1985; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1One dies. 100 hurtin clashesBOMBAY, September 28 (UNI): A man was killed and at least 100, including a number of policemen, were injured in violent incidents at some places in Jalgaon, Akola and Kolhapur districts where police resorted to lathi-charge, firing and bursting of several tear-gas shells yesterday.The entire Jalgaon city limits were brought under dusk-to-dawncurfew following inidents after the Ganpati processions, reports reaching the state police headquarters here said today.On seeing the mob turn violent, the Kolhapur district superintendent ol police declared “unlawful assembly o! people*’ in the area where the trouble erupted, the police said.Heavy police as well as state reserve police reinforcements had been despatched to the troubled areas where the sitpation was reported to be “tense yet under complete control*’ they said.The incidents followed, objections raised by rival groups on passing ol processions, playing of music and dancing as well as throwing 4gulal* atcertain sensitive spots, the police stated *1Akola (TOINS): The police fired three rounds in the air to disperse two groups of processionists who indulged in stone-throwing, injuring 16 people, at Patur, 32 km. from here, on Friday.Baroda (UNI): Peace prevailed in Baroda and the nearby Chhota Udepur town on Saturday after Friday night’s violence during the Ganesh festival.In Chhota Udepur, the curfew imposed late on Friday night was lifted on Saturday.The police had fired two rounds there to scatter stoning mobs, but. no one was injured. Five prsons wei£ arrested in this connection, the policy said.	•Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿10 killed in U.P. mishapsThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jul 6, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿9 killed as fresh riots rock U.PThe Times of India (1861-current); Dec 12, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1ARSON, LOOTING IN KANPUR9 killed as freshriots rock U.P.LUCKNOW. Dec. 11 (UNI & PTI).COMMUNAL violence, claimed nine lives in riot-torn Aligarh and Kanpur over the past 24 hours, while tension gripped more towns in Uttar Pradesh, official reports received here today said.Six of the fresh casualties occurred in separate incidents in Aligarh, raising the death toll there since December 7 to 46.An official spokesman told newsmen that three people were killed in clashes and firing incidents in Kanpur yesterday.A report from Kanpur, quoting doctors in hospitals where the injured are being treated, said six people had died since yesterday.	,Sniping from rooftops and incidents of bomb blasts were reported, from several areas today.Six people injured in fresh incidents of stabbing were brought to various hospitals, the report said.Troops conducted a flag march in the affected areas under eight police stations of Kanpur, which remained under indefinite curfew.All educational institutions and offices in Kanpur remained closed today.An official spokesman here said sporadic incidents of arson and loot-; ing of shops were reported in the citylast night. In all 87 people have been arrested so far in connection with various incidents.In Aligarh, indefinite curfew continued to be in force in the city and troops were assisting the district administration in maintaining law and order.The deputy inspector-general of police, Agra range, Mr Sureshpal Singh, said he will be taking immediate steps to verify facts presented by newsmen which do not tally with the official confirmation.He stressed that there will be no attempts to suppress the truth.He was referring to today’s report in the local newspapers stating that at► Rising violence dismays RV, Page 11He said a number of violent inci-,dents had reportedly taken place onithe outskirts of the city and com-1 munal tension was also prevailing in'several neighbouring districts. It would be difficult to ensure adequate safety to the students while they were travelling. He charged the Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) for indulging in indiscriminate killing leading to escalation of violence at Aligarh.He demanded that PAC be immediately replaced by the Central paramilitary forces and the army.In Aligarh three children were stabbed to death this morning near Krishna Tolla locality of the old city even as the indefinite curfew clamped here on Friday continues, reports PTI.least four persons had been killed on the outskirts of the city yesterday (Monday). These killings figure nd-i where in the official reports, he sailMeanwhile, the president of the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) students union, Mr Hafiz Mohammed Usman has denied pnfss reports that the AMU students hostels would soon be evacuated. He said since there have been no incident of violence inside the campus, there was no need to close down the university. ,Meanwhile, the medical college authorities confirmed that 11 bodies were lying at the mortuary since the past two days. These victims did not figure in the official list of those killed.In Badaun, the curfew imposed last evening after violent incidents and build-up of tension, was lifted this morning, the spokesman said.Reports of heightened tension were also received from the neighbouring towns of Atrauli and Hathras, he said.In Etah district, the situation in the riot-hit towns of Ganj Dundwara and Kasgai\j was reported to be peaceful.Curfew was relaxed in Ganj Dundwara twice yesterday and no untoward incident was reported from anywhere, the spokesman added.The Gwaltoli and Sisamau lo-(Continued on Page 15)Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.9 killed as freshriots rock U.P.(Continued from Page 1) calities in Kanpur were put under, curfew.The district magistrate, Mr Kapal Deo, told newsmen the situation was “tense but “absolutely under control” barring few incidents of firing and arson in parts of the city.Mr Deo said ISO persons have been arrested so far. He said among the arrested were three persons who threw bombs at the SSP and ADM yesterday.The district magistrate said 16 country made pistols, seven swords, 21 knives, about 25 countrymade bombs and two cases of cartridges were recovered during house to house search in four localities today.He disclosed that four places of worship were damaged in the past 24 hours.	,Schools, colleges, government and semi government offices and banks will remain closed tomorrow also, he said.Meanwhile, night curfew would continue in all the 13 police circles of Meerut city and Cantonment as a precautionary measure till furtherorders, the additional district magistrate said today.Curfew was imposed from 6 p.m. to 6 a.m. yesterday, the ADM, Meerut, Mr Rajvir Singh said.He said shopkeepers who defy the orders and open their shops before 9 a.m. and after 6 p.m. would be dealt with strictly.	,	,New Delhi: Several Hindu religious leaders today appealed to people of all religions to maintainpeace and communal harmony.In a joint statement here, they said that violence would not help anybody but it would harm everybody.. “The people of all religions should live together peacefully,” they added:The signatories to the statement included Swami Ganeshanand Ginji Maharaj, Swami Maheshwardeoji Maharaj, Santoshi Maharaj, Swami Vishwanand Puriji Maharaj and Srimahant Gangadasji Maharaj.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Sporadic violence in suburbsA Staff ReporterThe Times of India (1861-current); Jan 2, 1993; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Sporadic violence in suburbsBy A Staff ReporterBOMBAY, January 1: Shop-keepers downed shutters and people kept off the streets in the Nirmal Nagar area of Khar today, following last night’s police firing that left three residents and anequal number of policemen injured.Sporadic incidents of stonethrowing disrupted the uneasy peace that prevailed in the area all through the day, the police said. Kurla and Bhandup were also tense, following fresh attacks by miscreants yesterday.Last night’s incident at Khar occurred around 12.IS a.m., when a mob that had gathered to cel-(Continued on Page 3)Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.Sporadic violence in suburbs(Continued from Page 1),ebrate the New Year allegedly broke up into stone-throwing groups. Earlier, the 300-strong group had gathered at the Sadguru chawl in Jaihind Nagar in defiance of curfew orders.The picket on duty, consisting of three policemen, attempted to get the crowd to disperse initially. But the mob would not listen to reason, police officers said. In the bid to get the group to disperse, one of the policemen fired two rounds in the air.	-,However, according! to the zone 4 DCP, Mr V. L Ingle, this had almost the opposite effect, spurring some youths to move in and attack the picket. They are'believed to have seized one of the policemen and tried to drag him into a nearby ~ lane, with the intention of tailing him.Since the mob was allegedly armed with weapons like choppers, swords and knives, the policemen, in order to control the situation, were forced to fire atAhe mob. As a result, the authorities said, three people sustained gunshot injuries.Their names were given as Deep-ak Jadhav, 27, Anil Rewale, 22, and Vijay Chalke, 26. They wereadmitted to the V. N. Desai hospital nearby for the treatment of their injuries, along with the policemen who had been roughed up by the crowd. All six are out of danger, the police said.	,A number of flag marches were taken out through the area by thearmy this morning, the police said. ' Vigilance was stepped up as well. Ever since the riots last month, an army column has been posted on duty at a school in the area.Kurla continued to remain uneasy today, following a murderous attack in broad daylight yesterday on a municipal truck driver. The police said that Basheer Rafik Miya Shah, 25, was attacked by a group of men as he went into a toilet near the Baburao More chowk, where he had earlier parked his truck, around 9 a.m.He sustained numerous chopper injuries on the face and torso, and had to be admitted to the Sion hospital for treatment. Sources said he appeared to have been targeted for attack. Also in Kurla, early this morning, a small electronics shop, specialising in the sale of cassettes near the'New Model Talkies, was burnt down. However, police have not yet been able to track down the miscreants.Meanwhile, Muslim residents of Kurla have made a representation to the police commissioner that police officers with the help of antisocial elements “are trying to create disharmony and disturbance in the thickly-populated area.**In another incident in Bhandup yesterday a Muslim woman, the owner of a ration shop, was attacked by a group of men wielding lethal weapons, as she came down the staircase of her building, at around 11 a.m. She had to be taken to the Hinduja hospital for treatmentReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Cops, rioters clash in Meerut, 2 killedThe Times of India (1861-current); Jul 19, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1Cops, rioters clashin Meerut, 2 killedMEERUT, July 18 (UNI & PT1): | ' Two people were lulled and seven,1 including five policemen, injured in an 1 exchange of fire between the police and ' rioters who indulged in arson and : violence in a fresh outbreak of trouble in this riot-tom city today.1	The senior superintendent of police,1 Mr Gridhari Lai Sharma, told news; men this evening that security forces 1 had arrested 30 people in this connection.'	The senior superintendent of police,: Mr G. L. Sharma, told reporters that 1 the trouble started when some persons>	tried to defy curfew restrictions in the 1 morning, when the police tried to'*	prevent them, a mob gathered and ; threw stones. Some shots were fired*	from house tops also.; The scheduled curfew relaxation in 1 the four police circles of Lisari Gate,*	Delhi Gate, Kotwali and Brahampuri>	from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. was cancelled today.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿E. PAK INCIDENT NOT COMMUNAL: GOVT. STATEMENTThe Times of India (J86J-current); Aug 17, 1962; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 8E. PAK INCIDENT NOT COMMUNAL liovt. statementDACCA. August 16; The Cast Pakistan Govern mem in a press note last night confirmed a 45-day-old incident in Ghoumohani where four members ol the minority community died of injuries inflicted on them by unidentified men armed with deadly weapons.The press no;e described the whole incident as a • case of “gangsterism without any communal bias.—P.T.I..Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿A. P. violence spreadsThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Dec 12, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1The Times of Indio News Service.HYDERABAD, Dec. 11.VIOLENCE which has been raging in Hyderabad and nearby villages has spread to some areas outside curfew-bound areas. Nevertheless top officials of the Andhra Pradesh government have said that the situation has improved considerably.There were a few incidents resulting in police firing last night, but, by and large, the situation was under control in old city where the army was deployed and shoot-at-sight orders were issued on Sunday.. Official sources placed the toll in the violence since December 6 at 71. Other sources estimate the number of deaths at over 90.The general secretary of the A. P. unit of the BJP, Mr Bandaru Dat-tatraya, is among 90 people arrested on preventive grounds. Three legislators of the Majlis Ittehadul Musli-meen, two legislators of the Bharatiya: Janata Party and a former legislator of the BJP were arrested yesterday.Also, 74 people were arrested in Hyderabad and Tandur in connection with specific incidents during the current spell of violence.The state government hasdeployed additional forces in Hyderabad and some select places in districts in preparation for the Telangana bandh called by Naxalites tomorrow. All but one of the 29 people kidnapped by Naxalites in the wake of a confrontation at Narmetta in Warangal district last week have been released. One of the captives was rescued by the police after chas-ing a jeep used by Naxalites, according to the director-general of police, Mr R. Prabhakar Rao.Many areas have been under continuous curfew since December 6. The chief secretary to the A. P.> Government, Mr V. P. Ramarao, said that a decision about relaxation of .curfew would be taken tonight after reviewing the situation.Women and children were allowed to visit police stations in curfew bound areas to buy rice and vegetables for two hours this aftemon. Supplies of 840 quintals of rice and 30 quintals of vegetables were arranged, but the demand far exceeded the supply, Mr Ramarao said. Also, milk supply has improved substantially, to cover 980 out of about 1,000 booths in curfew-bound areas this morning. The other booths were also supplied milk by noon.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿FOUR CASUALTIES IN ALLAHABADThe Times of India (J86J-current); Mar 11, 1955; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9Uttar PradeshFOUR CASUALTIES IN ALLAHABAD Holi Festival ScuffleALLAHABAD. March 10: Two persons were killed and two others suffered serious injuries in a scuffle over throwing coloured water on the occasion of the third day of the Holi festival in Allahabad city this morning.It is stated that a passerby, taken unawares by a party of juvenile Holi revellers, made an effort at freeing himself by displaying a dagger he was carrying But. the revellers did not stop spraying him with col-lour and in the scuffle that ensued a boy of 12 was stabbed to death. The passer-by also succumbed to the severe injuries he had suffered in the melee.— P.T.I.Man Lynched To Death“Thp Time* <»f India” News ServiceALLAHABAD, March 10; An angry crowd lynched to death a man who had stabbed three boys for splashing colour on him today. One of the boys, aged ten years, died in hospital.Armed police guard the hospital where the other two boys are being treated.SaurashtraGRAM RAKSHAK DALS . Govt, Control Move“The T!me« of India” Ne s ServiceRAJKOT. March 10:	Sau-rashtra’s Chief Minister.	Mr.Rasiklal Parikh, will move a Bill in the State Assembly, meeting here from March 14. to regularise the estab’ishment of Gram Rakshak Dais in the State.Mr. Parikh stated here today that a scheme for creating this voluntary organisation	wasstarted in 1950. It proved very useful and now every taluka in the. State had that organisation.Bills to' amend the Prohibition Act and five other Acts will also be moved during the current session of the Assem-Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿5 killed: curfew in AhmedabadThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jan 6, 1986; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 15	killed: curfew in AhmedabadThe Times lata Ne*» StrvkcAHMEDABAD, January 5: At leastfive people were killed in stabbing and police firing and 15 received stab wounds when violence suddenly erupted on Relief Rapd in the Katupur area here this evening. An indefinite curfew has been imposed in the area.Seven houses and shops, two autorickshaws and one scooter were set ablaze by violent mobs at various places on Relief Road.One man was killed at Nanialini pole in Dariapur locality when the' police’ opened fire to quell riding mobs. The police were petal «Uta' sionesiii Kalupur and Dariapur areas and the police fired tcargas shells and resorted to lathi-charge in five places in these areas. The situation was brought under control but remained tense after curfew was imposed at about 8 p.m.While the police pleaded ignorance about the cause of the trouble, sources said it started with an altercation between two groups at Mujahidni Pole on relief road over kite-flying.This reporterwho visited the injured people at the V. $. Hospital.was told by some residents of the Kalupur locality that a kite incident was not the cause of the violence but it was all preplanned. The stabbing incidents suggested methodical planning and execution. The people were also attacked and stabbed in quick succession.According to some residents of the Bhandari Pole, the trouble had its roots in the killing of notorious gang leader.Alamzeb, at Surat last week. Tension had been mounting'between different communities as some people, enraged over the killing of the gangster, had forced closure of shops in Kalupur and Dariapur areas three days. back.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿100 AMU students hurt: alleged attack by RSS menOur Staff CorrespondentThe Times of India (1861-current); May 10, 1979; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1100 AMU students hurt: alleged attack by RSS menBy Our Staff CorrespondentNEW DELHI, May 9:Nearly 200 alleged RSS supporters today reportedly beat up studnets of Aligarh Muslim University, near Dadri, after stopping their train. The students were coming to attend a rally in the capital,More than itw students received first aid at the JP Hospital this afternoon.Nineteen were detained in the emergency ward “for observation.”P.T.l. adds:The hospital authorities said 13 students had been admitted with fractures and blunt injuries.The student union leaders said the Aligarh-New Delhi Passenger train was stopped by the miscreants by pulling the chain soon after it left Dadri station.	,Other passengers were asked to get down and the students were attacked.The police reached the spot after about an hour of the incident, the union leaders told newsmen here.As bulk of the students had reached the capital by chartered buses, the rally was held at the Boat Club. The speakers demanded restoration of the minority character of the university.Govt, asked to make statementNEW DELHI, May 9 (PTI): The government was today directed in the Rajya Sabha to make a statement tomorrow on the alleged attack at Dadri, near here, on students travelling by train from Aligarh to Delhi to demonstrate against the Aligarh Muslim University bill.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Entry of eight leaders into Meerut bannedThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); May 24, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1The Times of India News Service LUCKNOW. Mav 23.SPORADIC incidents continued to occur in riot-ravaged Meerut and security forces seized a number of weapons from sensitive pockets despite resistance during the past 24 hours, according to official reports, received here.Notwithstanding the ban.imposed on installing public announcement systems inside places of worship, loudspeakers continued to blare communal slogans which aggravated the trouble.Para-military forces and the police have been ordered to remove the loudspeakers.(Entry of eight political and religious leaders into Meerut was banned today as the official death roll in the communal violence rose to 63 and the city lay under curfew for the fifth straight day without any relaxation, reports PTI.The ban orders issued by the district magistrate last night prohibits the entry of Syed Abdullah Bukhari, Shahi Imam Jama Masjid, Delhi, Maulana Nawabuddin Nakshbandi, Imam Saf-darjang Mosque, Delhi, Syed Shahbud-din and Sultan Salauddin Ovasi, both MPs, Mohammed Asan Khan, •Mohammed Safiq-ur-Rahman, and Abid Hussain , (all MLAs), and Mohammed Afeal, editor of the Urdu daily, “Nau.” The leaders were planning to visit Meerut today.)Three more army battalions were rushed to the city and curfew extended to additional areas in the wake of incidents of arson and looting in the medical college and civil lines police stations areas. More than 1,700 persons have been arrested. \With violent incidents continuing, the army jawans began , a house-to-house search for weapons while the police and the PAC concentrated their attention in controlling the riots.The district magistrate, Mr R. S. Kaushik, told reporters in Meerut this evening that 13 drums, each containing 35 litres of highly inflammable acid, several, guns, country-made: pistols, live cartridges and a large number of daggers and sharp-edged weapons were recover following searches in’ different localities. The searches are on, he added.Mr Kaushik said the people were given enough time to surrender any illegal oHicenced arm before the security forces entered their houses. In some places, the security forces met with resistance when they went to collect thearms from the people..RAJIV FIRM (TOINS from New Delhi): The prime minister, Mr Rajiv Gandhi, said today that the government was taking the necessary steps to defuse tension in Meerut and in the ..capital. The communal situation had to be dealt with firmly and there would not be any let-up on that, he asserted.The Prime Minister was talking to guests at the Iftar hosted by Mr Azeez Sait, chairman, A1CC minority cell. Mr Gandhi listened to various points of view expressed by the guests, many of whom had visited Meerut and old Delhi.Mr Gandhi gave a patient hearing to various suggestions made by the guests to strengthen the administrative machinery in the riot-tom areas and toprovide relief to people living in curfew-bound areas.The guests also suggested that some long-term measures be taken to prevent the recurrence of communal trouble, in the same places. It was also suggested to him that the Sub-committee of the national integration council should be activated.The Prime Minister pointed out that there was no other country in the world except India where so many religions existed side by side. This was a unique situation and none should be allowed to disturb this unity in diversity. Therefore, all sections of the people would have to apply themselves together to find a proper solution.The Union home minister, Mr Buta Singh, said that political process, to fight the communal situation in Meerut and Delhi would be set in motion after a couple of -days.The home minister said first the situation had to be brought back to normal through administrative measures.	.Mr Buta Singh said that he was already in touch with various political parties. He would seek co-operation from all major parties and voluntary organisations to help in normalising 'the situation.	•Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Army out after in Jammu clashesThe Times of India (J86J-current); Dec 8, 1984; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1Army out after'	! S T '	■	'Jammu clashesJAMMU, December 7 (PH): The ermy was called in to assist civ:l authorities in maintaining law_ and order here as fresh cases of violence were reported today.Business establishments were closed in the wake of violent incidents. The army jawans and the police •were patrolling the city.The situation this, afternoon was officially described as “well under control,”UNI adds: Curfew was today imposed in the Nanaknagar area of the city following clashes between two groups.According to official reports five people were injured in a clash :n which two shops, one jeep and a scooter were set on fire.Taipei mine toll 33TAPE!, December 7 (AFP): Another body has been found in the Haishan coal mine, bringing the death toll to 33, with 61 other workers still trapped following Wednesday’s gas explosion and cave-ins, the police said today.A mine specialist said yesterday that “hopes are dim” for the survival of the miners trapped about 2,00C meters below ground at the mine in the town of Sanhsia, about 21 lan, from Taipei.The one survivor who has emerged from the pit was in serious condition with bums that made identification even by relatives difficolt. He was identified as Huang Ching-Fa yesterday but later confirmed to be Wong Huang-Teb.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿2 killed in firing: Aurangabad quietThe Times of India (1861-current); Jun 10, 1968; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1AURANGABAD, June 9. /^URFEW has been reimposed in Aurangabad city from 11-30 this morning till six a.m. tomorrow by the district- piagistrate, following yesterday’s: ^dn0MMal dote,.The situation was stated to be completely under control, late this evening. It was officially stated no incidents had been reported today.The troops which were called outyesterday to assist the police in maintaining law and order were withdrawn this morning but were kept on the alert.	'Mr. Kalyanrao P. Patil, Maharashtra’s Deputy Home Minister, today appealed to 50 leading citizens meeting here to help the administration in restoring peace in the town, after visiting the troubled areas.Mr. Patil said two people were killed yesterday, one in police firing and one when the military opened fire, as the crowds which committed large-scale looting and arson of shops resisted the police and attacked them with stones injuring many policemen and officials. Eighteen people and Ifi police officers and policemen were hurt yesterday, he said.LOOTING & ARSONNo official confirmation could be had of earlier unofficial reports which had stated yesterday that one person died and eight were injured in stabbing incidents.Mr. Patil said 20 people had been arrested on charges of looting and arson and 140 people for violating the ban on assembly and the carrying of weapons. Reports of 45 huts being set on fire yesterday had been received, he said.According to a press note issued early this morning, when crowds indulged in large-scale looting and arson of shops and stoned the police who tried to disperse them. the police opened fire in five different localities and fired 27 rounds from muskets and five rounds from revolver. Earlier the police had tried to disperse the crowd with mild cane-charges. The military which arrived in the town to assist the police at 10-30 last night fired 30 rounds.Mr. Gokhale, Deputy Inspector-General of Police, and Mr. Jog. District Superintendent of Police, were among the officials who were injured hv stones thrown hy the crowd. The injuries were minor, the ptevs note saidI he total loss in yesterday's arson and looting was expected to exceed Rs, 10 lakhs, official sources said.The order under Section 144, banning assembly of more than four people and the carrying of weapons in Aurangabad town, will be in force for ten days.Mr. Patil announced the appoint-Coadmed <m hft 9 Coham 1Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Riots erupt in Ratlam; curfew onThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 2, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1rhe Times of India News Sendee BHOPAL, Oct. 1.THE toll in the communal violence in Khargone town rose to four today evep as Ratlam, another town in the Malwa region of Madhya Pradesh, was brought under curfew.Till late evening, three, towns, Khaigone, Mhow and Ratlam»(were under curfew end there were reports 'of tension in the Balaghat distnet ‘ The principal home secretary, Mrs Nirmala Buch, told the TOINS that there were no untoward incidents in any of the three towns during the curfew period. She said the violence in Ratlam, which led to the imposition of curfew this morning, had also some other undertones uke some people who wanted to take possession of a plot which was under dispute, and there was an attempt at arson too.	'The ‘Ram shila poojan” campaign, has fuelled this violence, and although there have been no un-toivard incidents in any other place in the state, die programmes that have led to this violence are continuing. “Bfccha baccha Ram .ka, Jan-mabhoomi ke kaam ka is the slogan that is pervading the region. Saffron 'flags atop shops, vehicles,, and trishuls whenever processions are taken out are the most visible symbols of pro-Hindu sentiment N PEACE MEETING , In the state capital, the chief minister, Mr Motilal Vora, convened a meeting of the peace committee that was attended by a representative section, and later, an appeal was issued to the people to maintain communal harmony.’ The leader of the opposition in the Madhya Pradesh vidhan sabha,idr Kailash Joshi of fee BJP, told the TOlNS that.it was not correct to describe the ^current diitufbanoes as communaL He said it was basically the failure of the administration to check the anti-social elements, who were always on the look-out for such situations to capitalise on them.There was a two-hour relaxationof curfew ai Mhow twice and this was jhtident-free: The home minister, Mr ^aipal Singh; add the Indore MP,Mr Prakash Chand Sethi, also visitedthe area. A peace committee meeting was ialso held. .At all the places, the chain of events is rather similar. The “Ram shila poojan” procession in any town takes a long time to pass through the main roads, and in this period, there is prolonged slogan-shouting. In asmall town like Mhow, . the procession took five hours. This is generally the provocation for violence. Added to this, the atmosphere is charged to such an extent that a small spark is enough to ignite the situation. .	■	. 'Meanwhile, the Union minister of state for information and broadcasting, Mr K. K. Tewary, today demanded that the Election Commission should deregister the BJP and all other political parties that did not stand up to the requirements of secularism.In an . informal talk with reporter the Union' minister said that the events had proved that the BJP did not have faith in-fee principles of secularism. The party claimed that it jstood by positive secularism, which was a deception like Gandhian social-. ism, he added.CLASH OVER THEFT (PH from Jabalpur): Two groups of people clashed last night in Baihar town in Balaghat district following the tbeft of some idols from a local temple. /According to policO sources, no one was injured. The district 'authorities said the otuatioh was under control.	'no death in Firing (phfrom Meerut): The Bhopa incident of September 25 was “purely a dash” .between Haitians and Jats and nb person had died in police firing, fee: Uttar Pradeshraimster ofstate for home, Mr Saidiizilma, said in Meerut today:	■ ■ '	.:. ■Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿15 die in mob attack on two trainsThe Times of India (J86J-current); Sep 26, 1969; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 115 die in mob attackon two trainsAHMED ABA D, . September 2\ HE Ahmedahad-bound Janai.Express from Delhi and a loca1 train were attacked by mobs at dii-lerent points between Aiirnedabac and Mchsana. T iftccn persons wort'the attacks came even as the muho-liiic-' maintained a, firm cup over- this imuhlcd city and ciabi other Ciujai.r lo'WK hit h\ rioiv in the r>;M wjck ) he Janata Express	stoppetb\ a mob ot 2(M at Amhlivawin. ;station 50 km. hom here around 1700 bouts. In ihe attack tiro followed. Is pas-'Cruiei ^ were done n death. Earlier reports said three ol the viciinv-. we-rc u itmcn.ThcMtain left after heme del once lor o\cr JO minutes.The' other train, mnniivc holweer Ahmedabad and Melmana. was attacked at Daman'a a station, 50 km. iio,v Mchsana. Two pavseneeis wctc killed Many were iniured but their numhci w as not known.—P. I . I.killed.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿5 killed in HyderabadThe Times of India (1861-current); Jan 4, 1980; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1HYDERABAD; January 3 (UNI&PTI).T^IVE persons were killed .and -k scores of others were injured in clashes between rival parties in the Charminar area of the old city today forcing clamping of curfew from 7 p.m. today to 10 a.m. to-Miwi 1 V TV «The commissioner of police, Mr. P. V. Pavithran told newsmen late tonight that Laldarwaza, Gowlipura, Aliabad, Syedali Chabutra and Doodh-bowli were the most affected areas.He said several shops were broken open. Some shops and 1-8 houses were set on fire. Stabbing instances were also reported from these areas.Even after the curfew was enfroc-ed. there were stray cases of arson, stabbing and attacks on shops and houses. Six persons are reported to have been admitted to the Osmania Hospital with serious- stab injuries.While the trouble started with the fatal' stabbing of\;-a VJapata worker,' Ram: Prasad,; this^ihprnjh^ rthe. four others who. died .later, could hot beidentified yet. They were brought to the - hospital dead, Mr. Pavithran added.	’Besides strictly enforcing curfew, the police had made large number of arrests which were still in progress.The areas under curfew are: Mir-chowk, Rein Bazar, Charminar, Hus-saini Alam, tMoghulpura, Kamatipura, Chatrinka and Bahadurpura.The old city was in the grip ofcommunal frenzy and . the curfew completely, liftedfrom November 23 imposed then was only a month ago. Earlier, Mr. Pavithran cancelled all election meetings in the Charminar area following a clash between the Janata and the Maj-lis-e-Muslimeen workers, in which Ram Prasad and 30 others received stab injuries. He died on the way to hospital.Of the injured, 28 people have been admitted to the Osmania General Hospital.	.- ..Tb^police burst, tear-gas^ shells to quell riotous mobs, which indulged :in arson.’; ,. >’	^	;; ;v.'■Tension - prevailed av some '-hteas falling'; -under the Charminar police division, vvith shops pulling down their, shutters.	■	,,	.	\The commissioner	said that pollclashes and personal feuds were taking a communal turn in the affected areas.Till & p.m. today, - the fire, services had received seven calls from the riot-hit areas. Of these, four calls were from Aliabad and three from Husani Alam.The Border Security Force now here for electioneering is being .deployed in the affected areas.The police commissioner told newsmen this afternoon that mob violenceCentral. Reserve Police	movedInto the disturbed areas 4a -the old dtv.	■Workers of the Janata party were moving ih the old city wearing black badges.• Later, the Janata party workers took out the body in a procession from the hospital to the house of the deceased and later to the cremation grounds.Our Special Correspondent adds: The Janata party general secretary, Mr. V. Rama Rad, said that the violence was engineered by the Majlis Ittehadul Muslimeen at thejinSfigatign of the Congress (I). The Janata-party. candidate, Mr. A. Narendra7-imCffie disturbances were being createif '3|s to get the elections postponed. ••	-erupted following a clash between two persons belonging to different communities over an old quarrel. .The clashing groups, attacked eight houses and set one scooter and three cycles on fire, he said.The police used tear-gas shells when a police vehicle was mobbed, Mr. Pavithran said.Police reinforcements, including theReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿5 killed: alleged attack processionThe Times of India (J86J-current); Nov 15, 1967; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9attackon processte aMUZAFFARPUR, November. 14: Five people were killed and 37 houses Bet on fire when a Mahavi4, Jhanda: procession, taken out bythe'devotees of Mahavir Hanuman, was passing through v iRampurkhas village Muzafe ferpur-district, yesterday,^ccordmjr to an official report received here today. Three people were injured; the report added.	•■ An armed police force, headed by fte district - magistrate and the- super-, mtendent of police, Muzaffarpur, rushed fir the’ The cause of' the dish	wasaot known. The processionists alleged that attempts were made to interfere with the procession,;: Ten people have been arrested in this connection, 'Warrants : of .arrest have been issued against many more.—P.T.&'' IMF, likely te offer, , better facilitiesNEW YORK, November 14:' The International Monetary Fund .today announced plans Jo -provideT-ahw drawing facilities for member nations aimed primarily at boosting economic growth, in the,, deyeloping.countries.The fund’s managing director, Mr Pierre-Paul Schweitzer, addressing the U.N.’s Economic and Sdaal Council fECOSOC), called the hew facility the most, important,, single deyelop-ment since the fund was started. .Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Thackeray doubtful about peaceThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Feb 2, 1993; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 13Thackeray doubtfulaboutThe Times of India News ServicePUNE, Feb 1.THE Shiv Sena chief, Mr Bal Thackeray, today expressed doubts about lasting peace in Bombay because “huge stocks of arms still remained with foreign infiltrators and their local agents.” Asked if there was a possibility of yet another eruption in the communally ravaged metropolis, Mr Thackeray said he did not rule it out entirely. “We are leaving it to the Muslims. But let me tell you, if we are attacked, we shall hit back equally hard as we did the last time”, he stated at a press conference here.Cautioning the Union government that a ban on the Shiv Sena would set in motion a “cycle of revenge”, he said the Congress should not be under an illusion that it would be in power forever. If the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its allies came to power, the boom-peaceerang could catch up with the Congress as well, he commented.Reacting to the demand for dismissal of the Sudhakarrao Naik ministry for failing to control the Bombay riots, the Sena chief quipped: “In that case, the dismissal process should commence with the Union home minister, Mr S. B. Chavan, himself.” Ridiculing Mr Chavan’s statement that Mr Thackeray was a paper tiger, he wondered why was the Centre “seriously thinking” about banning the Sena if it was, indeed, a paper tiger.He was critical of the transfer of the Bombay police commissioner, Mr Shrikant Bapat. The decision was obviously taken under pressure of the minority community, he observed. He called for a thorough combing of Behrampada and similar other localities in Bombay as they harboured huge arms stocks and “foreigners”.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿2 killed in Aligarh clashThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jun 23, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 42 killed in Aligarh clashThe Times of India News ServiceLUCKNOW. June 22: Two persons were stabbed to death and several others injured in a clash that followed the arrest of a person belonging to a particular community in Aligarh last night.According to an official spokesman.,the clash took place when an irate mob gathered at the kotwali, demanding the release of the arrested person. Alleging that the arrest had been made on fictitious grounds”, the mob attacked the kotwali with stones and use force to disperse crowd.However no sooner had the crowd dispersed them group clashes occurred in the localities around the kotwali.Several people received stab injuries.Nine people were arrested in connec- ’ tion with the violence.Meanwhile, six additional companies of the provincial armed constabulary (PAC) have been deployed in Aligarh, where seven companies were already keeping a strict vigil on the law and order situation.Later, when contacted, the chief minister. Mr Bir Bahadur Singh, described the situation as well “under control”.Civic body soon for New BombayThe Times of India News ServicePANVEL, June 22: A municipal corporation is to be set up before August 15 for New Bombay and its adjoining areas, according to the minister for urban development. Dr V. Subramaniam. He said this at a meeting at CIDCO Bhavan yesterday in connection with the Kalamboli steel yard complex.	'The. meeting was attended by the officials of the Maharashtra Electricity Board. CIDCO, the Thane police commissioner and the joint convenor of the steel market complex at Kalamboli. MrS.	P. Khosla.Mr Khosla said the high cost of transport and inadequate police protection had delayed the shifting of the steel yard.Call for Afghan solutionNEW DELHI. June 22 (UNI): A national conference on Afghanistan yesterday appealed to all countries in the region to extend their support for “reconciliation, peace and progress of the people of Afghanistan.The speakers included the former supreme court judge, MrV. R. Krishna Iyer, Mr Harkishan Singh Surjit (CPM). Mr M. Farooqi (CPI) and Mr H. N. Bahuguna (Lok Dal).Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿4 killed in Malegaon police firingThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 25, 1967; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1“The limes of India* News ServiceNASIK, September 24.WOUR people were killed and nine injured when the police opened fire at Malegaon today to disperse violent crowds engaged in looting and destruction of shops.The police opened fire at three places, as trouble spread after two people were arrested for stealing and slaughtering a cow.Menacing crowds grew tense as news spread about the slaughter of the cow Ihe mamlatdar of Male-gaon clamped a prohibitory order under Ses. 144-. ( r. P. ( T he crowds became more violent as Lite das wore on and about 3; .shops weir set on fiie. Another !< shops were looted in vanou' parts ut (he town.24-HOr'R CI RFTIW1'lie police tried lo disperse the crowds Inj two hour-s. They made several lathi-charges. One police inspector. two sub-inspectors and II constables were reported to be injured In stone-throwing by crowds. The police then opened fire.A 24-hour curfew has been imposed on Malegaon. About 13? people were rounded up and police reinforcesmerits were rushed trom JNasuc ana other places.The Deputy Minister for Rural Development, Mr. V. B. Hiray, went to Malegaon as also the D.I.G., Mr. S. G. Pradhan, die district superintendent of police, Mr. M. S. Kasbe-kai, and the collector of Nasik, Mr. S. P. Mohani. The situation was reported to be under control bv night.AHLYlf.DNA(i Af<. September 24: Police reinforcements, including some Special Reserve Police squads, have been sent to Newasc. a taluk.) town 12 miles lYom here, as a precaution against any trouble over the reported -menmi;’, oi an clot there vestesrdai. it was ofiicialh stated hereAn order under Sec. 144. (r.PC. has aKo been promulgatedThe situation was renorted tn be calm —I’ 1 IPolice reinforcementsReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew in BareillyThe Times of India (J86J-current); Aug 19, 1980; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1Curfew in BareillyBAREILLY, August-18 (UNI): Cur-few_has been imposed qn the town for an indefinite period after a two-hour relaxation- this morning..The administration claimed that the situation in the town was under control barring minor incidents of brickbatting.	1The police has rounded up 64 persons 60 far.All government offices, banks, schools and courts remained closed and heavy police patrolling was in progress.Examinations of Rohilkhand University have been postponed till August 21.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Varsity allows morning classes for F.Y.Sc., I. Sc.The Times of India (1861-current); Jan 31, 1969; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Varsity allows morning classesfor F.Y.Sc., I. Sc.By A Staff ReporterC3ENCE colleges in Bombay willbe able to hold their First Year and Intermediate Science classes in the mornings and evenings from the next academic year.Sundays and holidays could also be used for completing, if necessary, the courses in practical**.The proposal to start morning and evening science classes, especially em*, ployed students, had been considered by a committee set up for the purpose by the Bombay University Syndicate.The committee favoured the proposal, mooted by Prof. A. N. Nam-joshi. The Academic Council and the-Syndicate subsequently endorsed it.But students in the F.Y. and I.Sc. morning and evening classes, will be required to keep three terms instead of two as at present. It is felt that the syllabus is too vast to be covered in a year (two terms).1 killed: police firing in Cuttack district' BHUBANESWAR, January_3G:-One. person was killed when the police opened fire to disperse violent groups of people who clashed at Kendra-para, a sub-divisional town in Cuttack district, according to official reports reaching here tonight.Cases of arson were also reported from the town. ^Official reports said the trouble broke out afler some miscreants allegedly stoned a procession carrying an image of the goddess Saraswati for immersion.The police opened fire when the bursting of tear-gas shells and lathi-charge failed to control the situation.The district magistrate and the superintendent of police, Cuttack, have rushed to Kendrapara.—P.T.I.6 Pak intruders jailed“The Times of India” News ServiceSH1LIONG, January’ 30:	Mr. N.C. Gohain, sub-divisional magistrate, Karimganj ,has given six Pakistanis jail sentences ranging from 15 days’ to one month's rigorous imprisonment for entering Assam without valid travel documents.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew after violence in HyderabadThe Times of India Newes ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 5, 1984; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1The ' Times of India News ServiceHYDERABAD,: September : 4 A 2>hour, curfew was clamped on^ some 1 jrts of the old city following cla-.shes,between processionists and'stone-: throwing mobs, late last night. '.The .curfew will remain in force till to-i morrow: morning.	.; The police Tired in the area to disperse mobs which indulged in arson \ and violence.: Some police motorcy-icles were set on fife while many per. sons, including 18 policemen,, were : injured. '..: Half a \dozen stabbing -, incidents were reported. :	:According. to sources, the trouble was sparked off by slogans raised by members of the two processions, taken out in connection with Ganesh Chaturthi and Punkah festivities.UNI adds: Some anti-social ele-: ments attacked .and: ransacked the office of “Munsif (Urdu) daily here this morning and broke. some furniture. 1; ’The Andhra ; chief secretary, Mr B. N. Raman, today held a meeting with four Majlis-Ittehadul-Musltmeen members of the state,: assembly, to discuss the situation in the old city.The chief secretary also met separately the Bharatiya Janata Party legislator, Mr A. Narendra and the BJP state unit, general secretary, Mr, Bandarj Dattareya,, besides Mr Vande-mataram Ramachandra Rao, senior vice-president of the International Aryan League and adviser of the Bhagyanagar Ganesh Utsay Samithi.Mr Raman also held a high level meeting with senior, police officials, including the director-general of police, . Mr Mahender Reddy and the police commissioner, Mr R. Prabha-kara Rao, to review the law and order ptuatlon.	,	•	■Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Violence, Tiring in MeerutSrivastava, R CThe Times of India (1861-current); May 29, 1980; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 5By R. C. SRIVASTAVAMEERUT, May 28.VIOLENCE at the fag end of polling at two booths in the .Meerut (city) constituency marked the otherwise dull but peaceful polling in six of the 11 Vidhan Sa-ibha constituencies in Meerut district covered in the first round today.indulged in heavy brickbatting. Apart from the polling station compound, houses along the Maqbara Abu Road, Delhi-Dehta Dun Road and buildings situated close to the Kaisarganj police chowki, 30 metres from the school, were not spared.The police fir,ed two rounds in the air to disperse crowds of supporters of the main contenders, Mr. Manzoor Ahmed (Congress-1) and Mr. , Mohan tLai Kapoor (Bharatiya Janata Party). The firing helped in preventing the situation from taking a serious turn.During a 40-minute free-for-all,realignment of groups was said to have taken place. Forgetting, political affiliations, the supporters of .. both candidates allegedly regrouped themselves on communal lines. Some of than were heard even raising parochial slogans. .The clash followed objections and counter-objections raised by the poll* ins agents of the two main aspirants over “fake voters” at the town school veSgndah polling station in Kaisai> gaoj. The situation took an ugly turn within minutes and the unruly crowd-It ' is alleged that three men atop three houses had aimed rifles at the stone-throwing crowd. The crowd ran berserk and resorted to indiscriminate brickbaUicg,50 p.c. voting in RajasthanJAIPUR, May 28 (UNI): Nearly 50 per cent pf the. over nine million electorate today turned, out. to exercise their franchise in the first round of polling in Rajasthan covering 105 of the 200 assembly constituencies, according to official reports received here.No violent incident has been reported from any part of the state.The largest turnout of 60 per cent was reported from Fatchpur and Ha-numangarh.The lowest turnout was at Weir and Nagar in Bharatpur district where the percentage was reported to be barely 30 pet cent.	_Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿3 DIE, 25 HURT IN RIOTThe Times of India (J86J-current); Dec 8, 1955; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 93	DIE, 25 HURT IN RIOTU. P. Village Clash----------------ALLAHABAD, December 7: Three persons were killed and 25 injured in a riot in Hakim-pur village, 28 miles from Allahabad City, on Sunday last, according to information received here today.Those killed were the President and Vice-President of the Gaon Sabha and a woman who received fatal injuries while she was working in the field.The injured have been admitted to hospital. Among them are five women.It is reported that the riot was the culmination of longstanding enmity between two groups of villagers. Recently allegations of theft and dacoity were made against one of the groups, about 70 members of which formed a riotous gang on Sunday.The rioters, who carried lathis and spears, attacked members of the other group. They also looted about a dozen houses.--P.T.I.DISTRICT BOARDS ACTReplacement Proposed“The Times of India” News ServiceLUCKNOW, December 6: The U. P. Government is now engaged in drafting a comprehensive Bill to replace the existing District Boards Act of 1922 to conform it to the provisions of the Indian Constitution.This announcement was made in the Vidhan Sabha here yesterday by the Minister for Local Self-Government, Syed Ali Zaheer, when a Bill to amend the Act was introduced by him in the House.The Bill was later passed by a large majority.3	KILLED, TWO INJURED Lorry Overturns“The Times of India” News Service BELLARY, December 7: Three persons were killed and two gravely injured in an accident near Godehal, eight miles from here, last, night.A lorry loaded with iron ore, which was on its way to Gimta-kal, was reported to have overturned while negotiating a curve, The injured persons were admitted in the district hospital. The driver of the lorry was stated to have absconded.New Dhulia College“The Times of India” Newsservice DHULIA, December 6: A Commission appointed by Poona University has arrived here to make a preliminary inquiry into the proposed starting of an arts college here.The Shivaji Vidya Prasarak Sanstha had applied for permission to start the college. The District Local Board has sanctioned a donation of Rs. 25,000 and the Dhulia Municipality, Rs. 15,000. An appeal has also been made to the citizens to come forwardwith prmtriVmHrmaReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Lame-scale violence in U. P. BiharThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); May 21, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 120 KILLED IN MEERUT • REPOLL IN 84 BOOTHS • .55 PER CENT TURNOUTLarge-scale violence in U. P., BiharThe Times of India News Service NEW DELHI, Ma_y 20.Killing of a sizablenumber of persons in communal clashes in Meerut and reports of large-scale violence and booth-capturing in parts of Bihar, U.P., West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh marked the first round of polling in the tenth general elections.However, the bulk of the 204 parliamentary constituencies and 591 scats for three assemblies in nine states and four Union territories that went to the polls today, witnessed a by and large peaceful polling with 55 per cent of the 197 million electorate turning out to cast their votes todecide the fate of over 3,900 candidates.In U.P., at least 20 persons were reported killed in Meerut alone where the entire old city had to be put under curfew following group clashes. The army had to be called out in Bulandshahr to assist the civil administration in controlling the situation.In Bihar, four persons, including an official on election duty, were reported dead in Sewan constituency. Large-scale booth-capturing was reported from Patna, Pumea, Chhapra and Ranchi, besides Arrah and Jehanabad. Over 300 complaints of booth-capturing were received from Pumea alone. Among the other constituencies, Patna reported similar incidents in 51 booths, Chhapra in 30, Ranchi 25, Jehanabad 10, Arrah I I and Sewan four. The facts were being ascertained before ordering fresh polls in these booths.Incidents of general violence, booth-capturing, intimidation of voters and assaults on candidates and their supporters have been confined by and large to Bihar and U.P. and toa slightly lesser extent to Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal. Belying earlier apprehensions, Haryana had an “unexpectedly peaceful” poll with only three reported cases of boothcapturing in Adampur, Rohtak and Rewari constituencies.According to the chief election commissioner, Mr T. N. Seshan repolling will be ordered in all the established cases of booth-capturing by the respective returning officers. In many cases, fresh polling has already been ordered for May 22.The election commission tonight ordered repoll on Wednesday in 84 polling stations in four states and is considering fresh polls in over 500 more polling stations, mainly in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh, following violence and booth-capturing, reports PTI.Repoll has been ordered in 50booths in Bihar, 22 in Rajasthan, eight in Haryana and four in West Bengal, the deputy election commissioner, Mr D. S. Bagga, said late tonight. Reports of complaints about more booth-capturing and violence were pouring in, he said.Some persons have been reported killed in poll-related violence in Andhra Pradesh where bombs were said to have been used in Ongal and Hyderabad constituencies. The reports received here till this evening revealed 12 incidents of booth-capturing and three bomb explosions in Ongol constituency. The police had to open fire at more than one place. Elsewhere in the state, six booths were captured in Hyderabad and 18 each in Bapatla and Guntur consti-tiMncies. Police firing was also reported in Guntur and Hyderabad.In West Bengal, which recorded arelatively high turnout of 65 to 70 per cent, a large number of complaints have been received Of violence, intimidation and other electoral malpractices. In Asansol, two incidents of bomb explosions have been reported. Four booths were captured in this constituency. The election commission is ascertaining the facts about the complaints.Extensive disruption of the poll process was reported from nine of the 42 Lok Sabha constituencies in U.P. where the electorate exercised their franchise to elect their representatives for 207 assembly segments. Besides the clashes in Meerut and Bulandshahr resulting in large-scale casualties, attempts at booth-capturing, intimidation of voters and preventing the members of the weaker sections from casting their votes were reported from Varanasi, Pratapgarh, Etawah, Muzzafamagar,Allahabad, Baghpat and Hapur. The overall turnout of voters was rela-tivcly poor in this state — around 40 per cent.The areas having a totally incident-free polling included Himachal Pradesh, Sikkim, the Andaman and Nicobar islands and Lakshadweep. The polling percentage varied from above 50 in Himachal Pradesh to nearly 80 in Lakshadweep.The Union territory of Delhi, having seven Lok Sabha seats, had a by and large peaceful poll. There have, however, been a large number of complaints of missing names in the electoral rolls. The percentage of voting ranged widely from a mere 35 per cent in South Delhi to 63 per cent in Chandni Chowk constituency. It was 50 per cent in New Delhi and East Delhi, 48 per cent in Karol Bagh, 53 per cent in Delhi Sadar and 45 per cent in Outer Delhi,The second round of polling will take place on May 23 and the third and final round in the current phase on May 26. The polling in Assam and Punjab will be held in June while the elections in Jammu and Kashmir have been kept in abeyance. The counting of votes for the 510 Lok Sabha constituencies and the state assemblies going to the poll in this round will begin on the morning of May 27.Prominent among those in the fray in today’s polling were two former prime ministers, Mr Rajiv Gandhi and Mr V. P. Singh, the BJP stalwarts, Mr L. K. Advani and Mr A. B. Vajpayee, the SJP chief and the deputy prime minister, Mr Devi Lai, and several former and present ministers and chief ministers, including Mr Yashwant Sinha, Mrs Maneka Gandhi, Mr Subodh Kant Sahay, Mr H. K. L Bhagat, Mr Arjun Singh, Mr N. D. Tewari, Mr Madhavrao Scin-dia, Mr Balram Jakhar, Mr I. K. Gujral, Mrs Vijay Raje Scindia and Mr George Fernandes.U.P. witnessed the worst incidents of poll violence with at least .30 persons killed and 100 injured, during the first round of polling in the state today. At the end of the day, up to 50 per cent polling was recorded.Meerut'Witnessed the maximum number of violent incidents and about 20 persons died in political clashes. The poll violence later tooka communal turn.Pitched battles were fought on the streets of the old city. Shops and residential premises were set ablaze and anti-social elements had a field day. The Congress candidate, Mr Manzoor Ahmad, received head injuries in a stone-throwing incident.Mr Ahmad was shot at and injured after passions were aroused which resulted in communal violence. The curfew, which was imposed on three police stations initially — Kotwali, Delhi Gate and Lisauri Gate — was later clamped on the entire city. All 13 police stations of the city have been placed under curfew. Polling in two assembly constituencies — Meerut Cantonment and Meerut City was suspended. Repolling will take place on Wednesday.In the chief minister's constituency, Jaswantnagar in Etawah district, three persons were killed when the SJP and Congress supporters clashed at several places.The poll-related violence at Bulandshahr, where one person was killed, took a communal turn. One column of troops has been deployedto control the situation.Violence erupted at Gulawati townin the afternoon where supporters of the SJP and J.D. fought pitched battles with guns and bombs. Sikan-drahad town, where polling was Suspended following violence, has been placed under indefinite curfew.A three-year-old boy was killed when he was caught in a crossfire between two warring groups, at Salota village in Sikandrabad.Elsewhere in the state one person was stabbed to death in Aligarh, another person was injured in the violence that followed.A 16-year-old boy was shot dead in Lakhnau village in Hathras district, the spokesman added.A Congress worker was allegedly killed by SJP supporters in Bulandshahr district last nightBihar also reported extensive violence with at least 12 persons killed and 50 hurt, as an estimated 50 to 60 per cent of the electorate cast their votes amidst charges and countercharges of widespread booth-capturing by dmerent political parties.Officials, however, confirmed only 10 deaths and 23 injured.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Hyderabad curfew further relaxedThe Times of India (J86J-current); Sep 22, 1984; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 7., i ■	_	.	. . .^Hyderabad curfew ; vl ■ further .'-relaxed- ‘HYDERABAD, September 21 (PTI):• Day curfew, will be lifted from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. tomorrow in 16 • .pqiice station limits in the strife-torn old; city and adjoining areas. .The death toll in the incidents since September 9 rose to 25 with the death > of Tone more person in the hospital late, last night. _ \' No untoward incident was reported frdtn any of the areas when curfew w(iS relaxed for two hours from 4 : p-m. this evening, although one per' so,n was stabbed in the Tapachabutra - area just before .curfew relaxation, according’to a police press release./Night curfew from 10 p.m. to 6 ami. will continue in 10 other police ' station limits' where day curfew was •lifted earlier, the'release said. , •Stray stabbing incidents were reported from non-curfew areas of Kbairatabad and Banjara hills last/ night,■The city .police commissioner, Mr .RTPrabhakar Rao, said the situation, though under control, continued to betense.	x /	■j AP portfolios, • i; ‘	*• HYDERABAD, September 21 (D>JI):	The Andhra Pradesh chief ‘minister, Mr N. T. Rama Rao, to-■ night allocated portfolios to members of. his cabinet.	.. ./While the chief minister will be In charge of law and order and educa* tioii among other things, Mr N, Srjinvasulu Reddy and Mr Venkata* rair.a Jogiah will hold important portfolios of finance and home respectively.. i 11 -	•	•! S. Korean dissidentJ •• ( ;	.T'faces legal action-SEOUL, September 21 (KYODO): South Korea today said it will take legal action against dissident leader,Mf Kim Dae Jun, if he returns to Seoul from the U;S.' by the end of this year as he had 'publicly announc-cd.- paying that Mr Kim was released from prison on condition that _ he would not conduct political activities at,home or abroad, the justice m:r,i-sti'y. authorities accused the 1971 opposition presidential candidate of breaking his promise.The South Korean government allowed Mr Kim .to leave for the U.S. in December 19S2.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Imam held, curfew in Delhi areasThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jul 5, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1The Times of India News ServiceNEW DELHI, July 4.CURFEW was clamped on the Delhi walled city areas this evening following the detention of the Shahi Imam of Jama Masjid in Moradnagar, en route to Meerut, and “isolated” stabbing incidents in Old Delhi,Police officials clarified that th( two stabbing incidents and the fin at a junk dealer’s yard were no' “communal incidents”, but in ar atmosphere surcharged with ten' sion these served to inflamepassions. -	•An additional force was rushed t( the walled city as tension welled up ir the area after the return of the Shah Imam, Syed Abdullah Bukhari, and hii companions from Moradanager, when a mob had hurled stones at them. Old Delhi has. not been completednormal since May 19 when communal riots erupted, and the imposition of night curfew between 11.00 p.m. and5.00	a.m. continues.Today, however, curfew was clamped on the disturbed areas at 7.00 p.m., with the authorities insisting that it would be lifted tomorrow morning if the situation was normal. Police vehicles fitted with megaphones went around the streets' announcing the curfew and asking people to remain indoors.The entire area covered by the Jama Masjid, Chandni Chowk, Hauz Qazi, Kamla Market and Town Hall Police stations is under “indefinite curfew.” In addition, parts of the Lahori Gate area are also curfew-bound.The Shahi Imam and other Muslim leaders had left for riot-tom Meerut at about 8.00 a.m. today. According to a spokesman, the cavalcade of six careand a jeep was stopped on the Delhi Uttar Pradesh boundary and twiceagain On the Delhi-Meerut road. The entourage managed to drive ahead, after brief arguments.	_At Muradnagar, however, the police insisted that the Shahi Imam’s entry had been banned in the area and, according to reports, detained him and others at the police station for some time, charging them with assaulting some policemen.Reports say that a mob which had collected at the spot hurled stones at the Shahi Imam’s companions and also allegedly attacked them with lathis. There were also scuffles with the police, and six people were hurt A Doordarshan cameraman was injured and his equipment damaged in the .clash, according to the reports.The entourage to the Jama Masjid around 12.30 p.m. and traders began downing the shutters to protest against the attack on the Imam-led team to Meerut. Within a couple df hours, a large number of shops in the walled city were closed voluntarily. ’	!Wh?t added to the tension was the stabbing in the Jama Masjid area and' at Qasim Jan in the Hauz Qazi area.According to the police, a group of men who wanted a ride in a rickshaw stabbed the passenger who was in it; The other stabbing victim told the police.thOt someone tripped him and then stabbed him.MEERUT PEACEFUL (PTI from Meerut): No untoward incidents were reported from any part of the city as curfew was relaxed in two spells in different areas.	.While curfew was relaxed from 10.00 a.m. to 12.00 p.m. in Lisari Gate, Transport Nagar, Delhi Gate and Civil Lines areas, in Kotwali, Brahampuri and Nauchandi police circle it was relaxed from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. .A ten-year-old boy who was stabbed and thrown into a well yesterday, died today. With this, the death toll in the fresh outbreak of violence in Meerut since Sunday last, rose to seven.Mr Bakshi described the situation in Meerut as improving but. requiring strict watch.	.BARODA CALM (TOINS from Baroda): The day passed off peacefully in the city and there were no untoward incidents when curfew was relaxed for two hours in the trouble-prone areas.The toll following the current outbreak of violence on June 27 is now eight — five people died by stabbing and three in the police firing. In all, 167 people have been arrested.UNI adds: Curfew was relaxed for 11 hours in the Raopura and Kareligaug areas. It was relaxed for four hours it} different phases within the Wadi and city police station limits.	,Only women and children were allowed to come out for essential purchases in the Wadi and city police station areas, official sources said.More than 20 persons were detained in connection with a case of attempted arson in the Nagarwada area.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Minor Clashes Between Police &amp; Agitators: SAVE THE COW” DRIVE IN LUCKNOW: 10 AiThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 15, 1954; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1aSAVE THE COW” DRIVE IN LUCKNOW: 10 ARRESTSnon-violent,” whereupon the crowd collected again.Mr. Sahai was again asked to disperse with his followers. He, however, insisted on “offering satyagraha.” He and his ten supporters were then arrested.Mr. Hardeo Sahai was later released at the district jail.The trial of seven persons arrested on October 12 is proceeding in he court of Mr. Balram Singh, Judicial Officer.“The Times of India” News ServiceLUCKNOW, October 14.CKIRMISHES between the police and anti-cow slaughter ^ demonstrators resulted today in the arrest of ten agitators making a total of 112 arrests since the State Government started sending satyagrahis to jail two days ago for obstructing traffic.Nearly 50 persons, led by Mr.Hardeo Sahai, Secretary of the All-India Anti-Cow Slaughter Committee, marched half a mile to the Lucknow Secretariat this morning, shouting slogans against the Congress Ministry.Mr. Hardeo Sahai announced his intention to enter the Secretariat building, which also houses the State Legislative Assembly currently in session.Finding the front gate locked, the group walked to the rear entrance where Mr. Sahai made a short speech accusing the State Government of “betraying the trust of the people,” and “indulging in blatant lies.”POLICE INTERVENE Satyagrahis and not policemen, he said, had received injuries during the recent agitation. At that stage the police intervened and asked the crwvd to disperse. One of the police officers was seen swinging a baton. The gesture was the signal for many onlookers and sympathisers. to run.Police officers, however, quickly explained Lhat the officer’s intentions were “utterlyReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Ethnic groups want division Of ManipurThe Times of India (1861-current); May 7, 1993; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 71MPHAL, May 6 (PT1).INSURGENCY-infested Manipur is likely to continue to reel under the spell of agitations by various ethnic groups demanding separate homelands and a reorganisation of the state’s territory.At least four organisations are demanding a split of Manipur to create different homelands and “Southern Nagaland” while four valley-based extremist outfits are fighting for secession of Manipur from the Indian Union.While Zeliangrong, a group of Nagas in Manipur’s Tamenglong district and other areas, are demanding the creation of a “Zeliangrong homeland” by integrating all the Zeliangrong-inhabited areas of Manipur, Assam and Nagaland.The Kuki National Front (KNF) and Kuki Democratic Force (KDF) want the formation of a Kukiland by carving out Manipur’s Sadar hill areas autonomous council, Chandel and Senapati districts.A political organisation led by aformer legislator has launched a movement for conversion of Manipur s Churachandpur district into a Union territory and its ultimate aim, according to political observers, was to form a part of “Greater Mizoram.”Besides, the KNF and KDFs demand for a Kukiland is different from that of the Kuki National Organisation (KNO) and Kuki National Army (KNA).While the KNF and KDF want a “Kukiland” by carving out Manipur’s territory, the KNO and KNA are fighting for a “Kukiland” to be formed by Kuki-inhabited areas of India and Myanmar.The present KNF and KDFs demand for a Kukiland has resulted in Kuki-Naga clashes that have claimed over 90 lives in Manipur because the Nagas had strongly objected to the proposed “Kukiland” included the Naga-inhabited areas of Chandel and Senapati districts in Manipur.The demands of the bannedNational Socialist Council of Nagaland (NSCN) led by Thu-ingaleng Muivah and Isaac Chishi Swu are different.The NSCN is fighting for “independence of Nagaland” and their “Nagaland,” according to intelligence sources, includes Manipur’s Senapati, Tamenglong, Ukhrul and Chandel districts.”The Naga activities term these four districts as “Southern Nagaland,” said the sources. These four districts are mainly inhabited by Nagas of different communities.There is however no Naga overground organisation supporting the demand for formation of a “Southern Nagaland.”The Nagaland-based Naga students federation (NSF) in a statement recently said they were not opposed to the creation of any new district or state of homeland but they asserted that “not an inch of Naga traditional land should be carved out while creating any new district or state or homeland.The Manipur chief minister, Mr R. K. Dorendra Singh, has strongly ruled out the possibility of formation of either a “Kukiland or a “Southern Nagaland” by carving out the state’s territory.Besides, the demands for homelands by different ethnic groups, the banned United National Liberation From (UNLF), the People’s Liberation Army (PLA), .he Kangleipak Communist Party (KCP) and People’s Revolutionary Party of Kangleipak (PREPAK) are also waging an armed struggle for “an independent Manipur,” said the intelligence sources.Having a total area of 22,327 square kilometres, Manipur is a tiny, sensitive, border state in north eastern India.Manipur has peculiar land laws under which valley people particularly majority Meiteis find it difficult to settle in the hill areas while hill people can easily buy land in the valley and settle there without any problem.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Probe ordered into firing at AurangabadThe Times of India (1861-current); May 26, 1988; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1Probe ordered into firing\ at AurangabadAURANGABAD, May 25(PTI).THE Aurangabad district collector, Mr Rajiv Sinha, today ordered a magisterial inquiry into the police firings at Aurangabad and Bidkin on May 18 and May 20, respectively.Three persons died in the Aurangabad firing, while the Bidkin firing claimed one life. The two places and nearby Paithan were rocked by large-scale violence which claimed 2i lives, The sub-divisional magistrate, Mr Sanjay Ubale, will conduct the inquiry.Meanwhile, the situation in all the three places was stated to be peaceful with no untoward incidents reported in the past four days. The indefinite curfew imposed here and in Paithan would be relaxed for 12 hours from 6 a.m. tomorrow. Mr Sinha said.According to UNI the city police arrested 42 persons during the last 24 hours.Stormy start, Page 3Pak troops rushed to riot-hit GilgitLONDON, May 25 (PTI); Pakistan has rushed troops to quell rioting in the Gilgit area following a dispute between Shia and Sunni tribesmen killed many in nine days of rioting between the two sects near the Karakoram highway after Shia tribesmen celebrated the end of Ramadan fast on May 17—one day ahead of their Sunni fellowmen.Troops were called in from the Rawalpindi garrison, near Islaat, because of its nearness to China and Kashmir, the reports sais. .Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿TENSION IN ALIGARH: VARSITY CLOSED FOR 18 DAYSThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 5, 1961; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1TENSION IN ALIGARHVarsity Closed For 18 DaysALIGARH, October 4.A L1GARH Muslim University ■i*- will be closed for 18 days from today in view of the tension that has gripped the town after yesterday’s incidents.bix persons were Killed and 4_t injured in clashes in various parts of the town yesterday. No incident was reported today.The authorities relaxed for two hours the curfew restrictions imposed in the town last night.Police reinforcements have been brought to the town from other parts of the State.The trouble started on Sunday when the results of the elections to the University Students’ Union were announced. The victorious group was reported to have held a procession when clashes occurred in the campus. Yesterday there were clashes again when the other section of the students took out a procession.TRAINS DETAINEDAt the local railway station this morning two trains were detained for about 45 minutes tearing that students might slop the trains at the outer signal. The trains later left under heavy armed guard.Armed policemen have been posted at strategic points at the campus as well as in the thickly-populated areasContinued on Page 7 Column 3Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Communal tension high in CalcuttaThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Aug 18, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 5The Times of India News Service CALCUTTA, August 17.PROHIBITORY orders were x clamped in the Entally-Beniapukur and Metiabruz-Gar-den Reach areas of the city to contain a potentially explosive communal situation.The Eastern Frontier Rifles had to be deployed in the tension-ridden Entally area to augment the local police contingents. The situation, which could have taken an ugly turn, was contained with difficulty. It was sparked off by a road accident in which a member of a minority community was run over by a public bus..Two persons died and one is seriously injured in the violence that followed. It is being officially described as a clash between the Muslims and thejocal police force.The. conflict was contained before it could acquire a communal colour, the Congress MLA, Mr Sultan Ahmed, said.. However, he accused the police of acting in a partisan manner. The Chief minister, Mr Jyoti Basu, acknowledgeing the gravity of the situation, said the tension had occurred over a minor incident.In another part of the city, Metiabruz-Garden Reach, there was an intra-communal clash betweentwo linguistic groups. The Eastern Frontier Rifles has been deployed.Unlike the Entally incident, there had been indications that tension was building up in the Metiabruz area over Muharram processions. One person died, two were injured and 31 arrested in a clash over eve-tea$ing in the Pilkhana area. While Muhairam Day passed off peacefully on Sunday, tension broke out into the open on Wednesday. ,	'The Entally incident caught the state government unawares as the majority of the Calcutta police force had been deployed for the Independence Day-Calcutta tercentenary celebrations and the remaining police had been shifted to the Metiabruz area.	■Mr Ahmed, who was present at .Entally around the time of the incident, said the road accident caused the Muslims of the area to gather in large numbers. Similar accidents had taken place along the same road over the last few years and the local population was. incensed.A group of persons were determined to set Are to the bus though the majority community tried to prevent it. The police arrived in time to stop the two communities from clashing but bore the brunt of the violence. -	.The police fired 30 rounds of teargas and then opened fire in which one person was injured. Officials are tightlipped about the nature of injuries of the person injured in the clash, though the initial reports indicate the possibility of pipegunwounds. .There were rumours that the mOsque in the area had been attacked and bombs had been hurled at the building.	'	. '. Mr Ahmed said that those who burnt the bus and those who opposed it clashed and hurled bombs. Ten policemen, including a deputy commissioner of police, Were injured in the incident. The minority community seemed prepared and were armed.While the Entally incident took place around 1.30 p:m. on Wednesday, it took nearly six hours to bring the situation under control;.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew again in BorsadThe Times of India (1861-current); Apr 15, 1974; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1Curfew again in BorsadirAITMEDABAD. Apf'd 14: A 12-hour cm few was .re-clamped oil Bov-sad town in Kaiia district from 7 p.m. today us a precautionary mea-' sure, according to an official- sppkes-■ man here.	.■. No- incident had been •reported s both from Borsad' and Anknd towns . since the curtcw was lilted this mortis big. .-	J he curfew was imposed on the-	two towns on Thursday following' r -group, clashes.' arson and looting.-	The death-roll in the Borsad firing rose to five with, one more. per: son succumbing to injuries ai a Ba-'roda hospital.—-INI.	125 ill after taking soft drinkBy A Staff Reporter ;One hundred and' tw enty-live people' were admitted to four hospitals- in Bombay; v ai. the yveek-md with symptoms of food poisoning, after attending a wedding reception at Pare!.	'The police said they InuJ taken ill after consuming a * ‘‘soft drink at the wedding leception oh’. Friday. Later they .developed stomach trouble and'some vomited.	’.Two. - men lia.yc been a ’rested in this connection on a charge of manufacturing and selling misbranded aerated ' water. A. machine used for bottling ami some bottle caps have been- seized: .	'	• IReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Police firing in Jalgaon, 4 deadThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jun 10, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1The Times of India News ServiceJALGAON, June 9.TENSION prevails at Kasoda in Erandol tehsil, some 40 km from here, where the police opened fire yesterday, killing four people and seriously injuring several others, to disperse two clashing groups of people.Thirty people were injured in stonethrowing.A 24-hour curfew clamped on the area was lifted this morning, but reimposed soon afterwards for another 24 hours. No untoward incident has been reported during the curfew period so far, the police said.Yesterday, the Maharashtra minister of state for home, Mr J. T. Mahajan, who visited the area, ordered a magisterial inquiry into the firing. He was accompanied by the collector ofJalgaon, Mr Ganesh Banawalkar, and sensitive trouble spots, the DIG (Nasik), Mr Charan Singh He declined to say anything regard-Azad.	ing the writ petition filed by theThe police said 40 houses and a row director-general of police, Mr S. S. Jog, of zopadpattis were burnt down. Some objecting to the writing of the confiden-people sustained bums. Forty-three tial report of the DGP by the home arrests have been made so far. secretary, as the matter is sub judice.Tension was mounting in the area MEERUT NORMAL (PTI from following the alleged slaughter of four Meerut): Life in Meerut came back to cows. A protest bandh was called normal as day curfew was lifted m the yesterday by the Shiv Sena, the Vishwa riot-hit city.	.Hindu Parishad and the Patit Pawan All government offices, banks, busi-Sanghatna.	ness establishments, markets and fac-Mr Brijlal Patil, the district Janata tones opened and functioned normally party president, has demanded a ju- while the Meerut-Delhi and othenong; dicial inquiry into the incidents. distance bus services of the UPSTC Our staff reporter adds from Bom- were on. bay: The chief minister, Mr S. B.	Meanwhile, three more persons wereChavan said that the situation in detained under the National Security Jalgaon was under control today. Act and the number of detenus under He said that the state government NSA has gone up to 27 since April 14. was concerned about the fact that BAN ON RALLIES EXTENDED communal incidents were coming up (TOINS from Lucknow): The U.P. in places which were not identified as cabinet today extended the ban on theReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permissionholding of rallies, public meetings and demonstrations for IS days in 38 sensitive districts. The ban was imposed on May 24 for a fortnight in 32 sensitive districts aimed at ensuring peace and harmony.	.. 'MORE OFFICIALS SHIFTEp: Close on the heels of the transfer of the director-general of police, Mr D. -S. Bhatnagar, as the DG (prosecutioh), the government today transferred thfte deputy inspectors-general of policelto streamline the police set-up in sensitive areas.	;;CURFEW OFF (PTI from Bharuch): Curfew was lifted jin Bharuch in south Gujarat this morning as normalcy had returned to the town.Curfew was clamped on Bharuch hn May 18, following a flare-up whfch claimed six lives and left many m$re injured.	i.In Amreli, only night curfew was*!* force, the state police control said*
﻿RIVALS CLASH AT FESTIVALThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jun 14, 1957; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 5RIVALS CLASH AT FESTIVAL Police Open Fire“The Times of India News Service BTJAPUR. June 13:	Thepolice opened fire on Wednesday at Devarajnnur, 28 m les from here, to disperse two rival religious processions, which clashed on the occasion of the Karahunvi or pola festival.The rival groups used stones and sticks in the clash. The number of casualties is not known.Training CampsIn order to orientate village school teachers in the Community Development and National Extension Service blocks in the various facets of rural development, the Government of Bombay has decided to form two peripatetic teams, which Would organise training camps at suitable places, during the Second Five-Year Plan period.A fishing town off Kakdwip in the Sagar island in the 24-Parga-nas is to be'set up by the West Bengal Government at an estimated cost of about Rs. 27.47 lakhs to improve the working efficiency of deep sea fishing.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Firing on rioting mobs in cityA Staff ReporterThe Times of India (J86J-current); Aug 28, 1974; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1Firing on rioting mobs in city-Bv A Staff ReporterThe Bombay police fired one round in the air in the Null Bazar area in the early hours of Wed* nesday to disperse two groups of people throwing stones and aerated-water bottles at each other.The police control room said no one was injured in the firing and that the situation had been brought under control. Police reinforcements had been rushed to the spot.The cause of the clash was not known.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Lalsingh in hospitalThe Times of India (1861-current); Aug 5, 1992; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 5Lalsingh in hospitalBy A Staff ReporterBOMBAY, August 4: Lalsingh Manjitsingh, the brain behind the Kanishka crash, who had tried to bite off his tongue to escape interrogation by the CBI, is recovering in a Santa Cruz hospital, according to the police.By A Staff ReporterBOMBAY, August 4: The state Janata Dal president, Mr Sambhaji Pawar, today alleged that the communal disturbances at Malegaon and Sangli were engineered by Hindutva elements.He told newspersons such elements were trying to intimidate the minorities by creating an atmosphere of terror.He said the JD was confident that the statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji at Sangli was not desecrated by a Muslim.Muslims: JDReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Caste polarisation behind T.N. stirThe Times of India (1861-current); Jun 14, 1982; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 7PULIANGUDI, Tamil Nadu, June 13 (UNI).rpSE violence which rocked this town of 47,000 people and neighbourhood last week was the result of a polarisation of caste and communal forces in many parts of the southern Tamil Nadu district of Tirunel-Muslims and Harijans have come together under the banner of the Sama-thuva Sahodarathva Sangham (SSS), which means organisation for equality and fraternity, and the various caste Hindu groups have sunk their differences to face a perceived challenge from the unity of the depressed classes and the largest religious minority.The district collector, Mr. Nirmal Singh, Heera, tacitly acknowledged that ‘‘it appeared” that in the clashes Muslims and Harijans were on one tsdde and the caste Hindus on the other.Leaders of all three groups said tension had been building up in the town for about a month. Only a spark wasneeded to ignite the fuse,This was provided by an SSS meeting in neighbouring Kadayanallur on June 8 coinciding with the arrival of the guana ratham a mobile unit launched by the Vishwa Hindu Pari-shad to spread Hindu dharma. . The violence soon spread to the nearby town of Vasudevanallur and the vil-. lages of Ayyapuram and Muthusami-puram, resulting .in the death of nine people and destruction of hundreds of houses.While no violence was reported yesterday, except for an instance of arson in Muthuswamipuram, a UNI correspondent, who toured the disturbed areas, found the town still in the grip of tension. Although buses i started touching the town after a lapse of three days, shops were still closed.. People moved about in groups. All outsiders were viewed with suspicion. Various groups stopped this correspondent half a dozen times to check his credentials. '	.Members of different communities remained in their respective areas, not daring to venture out. Only police personnel, present in large numbers, moved about freely.	'	-Yellow flags with the symbol of Om in the centre fluttered in the caste Hindu quarters and the Harijans raised green-and-red flags , of their own. As one approached the Muslim locality of the town it presented a deserted, look with most houses remaining locked. However, in the vicinity of: the mosque people could be seen nioving in. groups.	.Mr. M. Sankarapandian. Pillai, president of the town Congress (I) and a former member of Parliament, said that the yellow • flags were hoisted in the caste Hindu quarters in place of the flags of various political parties after, a meeting early this month at which the caste Hindus decided to come together irrespective of political differences.,	.“ALARMING ACTIONS”He explained that the decision., was taken in view of the “alarming activities of the SSS aimed at transforming Puliangudi into another Meenakashi-purarii.”Meenakshipuram village in Tenkasi taluk of this district had attracted nationwide attention last year • when Harijans converted to Islam en masse.He accused the SSS of attempting to separate the Harijans from the caste Hindus. Harijans'from the town first attended an SSS meeting on May 5 at sSubramanya puram, three km from here. After joining the SSS they became hostile towards the other Hindus, he added. /He claimed that the Indian Union Muslim league president, Mr. Ibrahim Suleiman Sait, MP, addressing the June 8 meeting at Kadayanallur, which was attended by a large number ofHarijans, had said that if Harijans and Muslims came together they could capture power.1 The founder of the SSS, Mr. A. Shahul Hameed, the lone Muslim League member of the Tamil Nadu assembly, also addressed the meeting.According to his version, Harijans returning from the meeting shouted slogans against the Thevar community and this led to stone-throwing by members of the two Communities. A textile shop belonging to a Thevar was looted. The trouble quickly spread to other places. More than 200 houses of Thevars were burnt down in the town.Mr. S. N. Mohammed Ibrahim, president of' the Puliangudi Merchants Association and the head of the town welfare committee, denied that Muslims and Harijans had ganged up against caste Hindus. He pointed out that there were no Muslims at Ayyapuram and. Muthusamipuram, where Harijan huts had been burnt down.Mr. Ibrahim, who was in the mosque with his followers, blamed the troubles on “RSS men” who, he alleged, could not bear to see the prosperity of the Muslims and wanted to ruin their trade and agriculture.According to his version, RSS. men started creating problems a month ago after Harijans began attending SSS iheetings in Kadayanallur. At that time the SSS.did not exist in Puliamgudi.He denied that Muslims were inciting Harijans. The Harijans were befriehd-ing the Muslims,1 “unable to bear the atrocities of the RSS men,” he said.Mr. Ibrahim said Muslim residents of eight streets had evacuated to “places of safety.!’ They were facing the threat of starvation as they were unable to go out to buy food and fetch water.He accused the police of taking sides. More than 100 Muslims had1 been arrested following the disturbances* which had cost the community Rs. one crore, he said.	.He conceited that a large number of houses belonging to caste Hindus had been burnt down, but claimed that flames from -Muslim houses set on fire by RSS men had been carried by winds in the direction of the Hindu houses.He' charged the newspapers with publishing false news. The Vinayaka temple in the town , had. been untouched, he said. The'report that the temple was the target of'bomb attacks was a “lie,” he added. .	■A Harijan leader, ' Mr. C. V. Ra-jiah, supported Mr. Ibrahim’s version of the incidents of arson.Mr. Rajiah said caste Hindus started creating trouble after Harijans objected to the gnaria ratham being taken round their, locality.	.According to him, Thevars of Chockampatti attacked Harijans proceeding to the June 8 SSS meeting at Kadayanallur. The irijured ■ Harijans, on their return; to Puliangudi the next day, attacked shops belonging to Thevars from Chockampatti.The police resorted to a lathi-chargeto disperse the Harijans, who retaliated by stoning the police station. The police then fired in the air.He denied that the Harijans had attacked the police station again on June 10. “On1 the other hand,” he said, “the police raided our village and killed one person. Another died later in hospital.”The police had run amuck and destroyed property of all communities on that day, he alleged.He said the Harijan-Muslim friendship had arouspd fears of a repetition of Meenakshipuram in the minds of the caste Hindus although “we have no idea of converting to Islam.”Place of worship•	.	’	.	- i	,burnt downMADRAS, June 13 (UNI):	Athatched place of worship was burnt down early .this morning at Meenakshipuram in Tirunelveli district, the village where mass conversion of Harijans to f Islam last year had attracted national attention, according to information reaching the police headquarters here this- evening. .Nearly 100 person’s were arrested in various-..parts of Trunelveli today in connection with arson at Meenakshipuram . and communal clashes in Puliangudi On Friday, which had claimed nine lives. '	-Meenakshipuram village is 20 km from Puliangudi town._ Armed police patrolling had been introduced in Meenakshipuram and Puliangudi, police sources said.The situation was stated v to be under control. ! iReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Social group to deal with riotsBISHESHWAR MISHRA The Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Dec 10, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 21Social group to deal with riotsBy BISHESHWAR MISHRAThe Times of India News ServiceNEW DELHI, December 9: “We are crcaling a composite force to deal with the growing problem of communal clashes in the country,” the minister of state for home affairs, Mr Subodh Kant Sahay, said yesterday while on board an aircraft from Hyderabad to Delhi.This force, he said, would comprise the members of several voluntary organisations, social and cultural bodies already working at the grassroots level for communal peace and harmony.“Even before a para-military force reaches a riot situation, we must be able to fight this battle man-to-man at the ground level, with the help of volunteers of this composite force,” he elaborated.Mr Sahay said this was a new concept and that he was already creating a cell in the home ministry, which would oversee the functioning of this new force. He said he was not inviting renowned persons or VIPs to run this force. On the contrary, this new force would be entirely managed by people at the grassroots level. It will comprise members from all communities. They will be given fresh orientation and training to deal with communal riots.Since communalism is nothing but mistrust between two communities, the force dealing with it must be able to restore confidence that it is an impartial one. Riot-affected areas basically require a psychological approach rather than that of traditional law and order approach, he argued.This composite force, according to him, would be raised locally and would have “powers to deal with communal violence most cffec-livelv.”Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Karnataka back to normalThe Times of India (1861-current); Dec 16, 1992; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 15BANGALORE, Dec. If (UNI), rPHE crackdown on five banned 1 communal organisations continued in Karnataka even as the toll in the violence and firing in the aftermath of the demolition of the disputed structure in Ayodhya rose to 78 in the state with one person succumbing to stab injuries in Kunigal today, reports UNI.The additional director general of police, Mr K. Srinivasan, said that barring an attack on a police inspector and his driver in Mysore, the state was incident-free today. The army staged a flag march and intense patrolling by the police continued in Mysore city.Meanwhile, the city police sealed five offices of the banned organisations. These included two main offices of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, and one each of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), Islamic Sevak Sangh (ISS) and Jamait-e-lslami Hind. The police, however, were tight-lipped on the arrests of leaders of these organisations.NEW DELHI: After a week of intermittent relief, the residents ofcurfew-bound areas of walled city got an eight-hour reprieve today.The police relaxed curfew for eight hours from 8 a.m. in the Lahori Gate, Hauz Qazi, Kamla Market, Town Hall, Jama Masjid, Bara Hindu Rao and Sadar Bazar areas.The Welcome colony in northeast got a three-hour relaxation today.The curfew in Seelampur and Jafrabad areas will be relaxed from 2 p.m. the police said.GUWAHATl! With the recovery of three more bodies, the toll in the recent violence in Assam rose to 91, official reports said today.Three bodies were recovered yesterday from Dabaka in Nagaon district. The overall situation in the state remained under control and no violent incident was reported from any place for the fourth day today. Curfew was relaxed for different periods in Dhubri, Goaipara, Nagaong, Hojai and Dabaka towns.The chief minister, Mr Hiteswar Saikia, visited some of the worst-normalaffected areas of Hojai sub-division during the day and appealed to the people to maintain harmony.CALCUTTA: In view of the marked improvement in the situation, curfew would be lifted from most of the 35 police station areas of the metropolis and Howrah from today.The decision was taken today by the chief minister, Mr Jyoti Basu, at a high-level meeting with the police and administration today.Mr Basu later told newsmen that night curfew would remain in force in from 11 p.m. to 5 a.m. in four police (Station areas of Entally, Taltala, Watgunge, Ekbalpur and in Tangra in east Calcutta from 6 p.m. to 5 a.m.RANCHI: Curfew has been relaxed for 10 hours from 7 a.m. in all the 14 police station areas of Ranchi city today as normalcy returned to the city which witnessed an outbreak of violence following the Ayodhya incident.There have been no reports of any untoward incidents during the last 48 hours in the city.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿9 die in Bengal clash over landThe Times of India (J86J-current); Sep 20, 1981; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1By Our Special Correspondent' CALCUTTA, September 19: Nine pcop’e were killed and about 100 injured as two groups clashed with lethal weapons over a piece of land in Kona vil'age under Ch'akulia police stat:on. in Islam pur sub-division of .West Dmajpur early yesterday,.,Several houses were set on fire as mobs, belonging to two communities, fought till the police intervened and fired 25 rounds to .disperse them. , The police, according to latest reports reaching the slate headquarters, arrested over 220 people in connection with the incident. The situation continues to be. tense. Reinforcements have been rushed from neighbouring areas.	,	.The district magistrate and superintendent'of police visited the area immediately and a prohibitory order under 144 Cr. P.C. has been' enforced.The weatherBy A Staff ReporterBOMBAY, September 19:	TheColaba weather, bureau has forecast for tomorrow generally cloudy skies with one or two thunder-showers towards late evening or night.The maximum temperature at Colaba during, the 24 hours ended 5-30 p.m. today was 32 deg, C, two degrees above normal; the minimum, 26 deg. C., one degree above normal; and the relative, humidity, at 5-30 p.m., 75 per rent. _	■The city recorded no rainfall dur-. ing the same period and hence the season's total stayed at , 1,283 mm, 319 mm belOw. average.The maximum temperature at Santa Cruz during the 24 hours ended 5-30 p.m. was 32 degrees C., two degrees above normal; the minimum, 25 deg. C.,,one degree above normal; and the relative humidity 73 per cent.The suburbs, recorded -2.1 mm rainfall. during the same period, bringing the season’s total to 1663 mm, 74S mm' below average..Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Ban order in BhiwandiThe Times of India (J86J-current); Dec 31, 1982; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1BHIWANDI, December 30 (UNI) Prohibitory orders were promulgate tonight in this powerloom centre ii Thane district amid continued tensior following sporadic incidents of vio knee which marred yesterday’; Id-e-Milad - celebrations.The Thane police commissioner Mr, D. Rgmachandran, who has beer camping here, said the measure was necessary lb maintain law and ordei in the disturbed town. .The police made a lathi-charge Ids; night to quell a clash between T.Wc groups. Mr. Ramachapdran told Iocx leaders, MLAs and other citizens al a meeting . today that an impartr-v inquiry would be conducted into the incident.rockedGAUHATI, December 30'	(UNI).A POWERFUL earthquake rock ed many parts of the northeastern region of India at 2.08 p.m today. .	.	; '• ' .JTwo other- tremors were simultaneously felt at Shillong and Gauhati at two-hour intervals.The first shock, which lasted about 30 seconds!r'’sent panicky people scurrying out vpf doors. The two subsequent trepiors, lasting two to three seconds each, were felt around 4 p.m. and 6 p.m. respectively.	.At Gauhati, a small portion pf the roof of a concrete building caved in. No one was injured, preliminary reports said. '	.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿MR. MENON VISITS FRONTIER POSTThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jan 11, 1960; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 3MR. MENON VISITS FRONTIER POST Reception By VillagersCALCUTTA. January 10: Mr. V.K.	Krishna Mcnon. Union Defenci Minister, in a lightning tour of NEFA, visited the Lemeking post in the Siang frontier division today, it was officially learnt here,	•I he Minister who was accompanied by Air Vice-Marshal K. L. Sondhi, AO.C.-in-C., Eastern Air Command, was given a warm reception by the local Tagin villagers at Lemekingj He was shown, among other things, defensive bunkers one of which, located at some considerable distance from the camp, he entered after negotiating a very rpgged footpath, according to an Army press release.Hubli BanHUBLl, January 10: An order under Section 144, Cr. P.C., banning-the assembly of four or more persons, and the carrying of lethal weapons within a radius of two miles of Gavi Oni and Kamari Pet—two localities in Hubli town—has been promulgated by the Sub-Divisional Magistrate of Dharwar.The order follows a communal clash in these localities yesterday when two shops were looted.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Cong. rules out coalition with JD(A)The Times of India (J86J-current); Jan 22, 1993; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1The Times of India News Service NEW DELHI, January 21.THE Congress today ruled out the possibility of forming a coalition with the Janata Dal (Ajit), saying speculative reports which had appeared in a section of the press today had no basis whatever.The party spokesman, Mr V. N. Gadgil, said the Congress-Ajit Singh group talks which were now under way were not aimed at forming a coalition. Asked to specify the purpose of these parleys, he said these could be for some other issues.Answering a question, Mr Gadgil said if at all a coalition was formed at the Centre, “Of which I don’t see any possibility” it would be for the first time in the party’s history. “There is nothing in the coalition story which has appeared in some papers,” he added.Inquiries reveal that while the Congress is not keen on coalition, it would nevertheless welcome the merger of the 20-member Ajit group, which defected from the Janata Dal during the monsoon session of Parliament last year.The purpose of the talks between the two parties is to work out modalities of the merger. If the metier takes place, Mr Ajit Singh may be rewarded with a ministerial portfolio.Already, the election com-, mission has recognised the Ajit Singh group as a separate party.Curfew reimposedinBharuchAHMEDABAD, Jan. 21: Stray incidents of arson and stabbing were reported from Surat and Bharuch cities of south Gujarat since last night, even as the overall situation in the riot-affected areas in the state and Ahmedabad city remained peaceful, reports PTI.One person was stabbed to death and another injured in the violencemtoBharuch, forcing the authorities reimpose indefinite curfew yes-terday, the police said.Alexander to forgo R-Day feteBy A Staff ReporterBOMBAY, January 21: The governor, Dr P.C. Alexander, has decided to forgo the customary Republic Day reception at Raj Bhavan this year on account of the recent unfortunate incidents in Bombay and elsewhere in the state.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew again in Baroda after 3-hour breakThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 25, 1969; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 11Curfew again in Baroda after 3-hour breakBARODA, bcptcmbcr -•* :	Curlewv;is jc-impo-cJ nn B.uoJa cii\ altci ; three-hour relaxation thF morning, i came into force ah !0 a.m. anti v i 11 expire at 7 tomorrow morning.Curfew v.ill be ic-imposcd at 1702 lours to be in force till 070;) hom>,n r-nd-jv -Bui for a solitary tiro -call atlcml-ed lo by the fne brigade.'no untov atd incident was reported, dining these llirc: hours. People performed Gana-p.Ui hnirvcisions peacefully in bursagar lank, according to ihc superintendent of the fiic brigade.Municipal councillors and icprc-sentatives of education committees met in the morning and took '-lock of the siluulj|'n. Schools and college.- veic closed.Civil, pelco nd armv :ujtooi it!Cs went on a loumj o! ihe city in die moniine lo e-.e's the -muiion.DlAIH-ROl.f IS 10MOa ivv. bile. ! iie de;:’h-i oil mo m led lo ten in the l'-: thice ihc- ili-i'ir-banccr.The police npencu luv aihei midnight m D.india Ba/ar and Aiaiv. adi areas to quell unruly mob-. It vum not known whether anyone died. .Total of the injured in the incidents roseid 122 ihu morning, d vent}-[our o| them were reported to be in a serious condition.The police lncd sevcial icund.s on a violent mob early this morning in Rnira injuring two per-.ons, according to a me>-agc received here.Ban in Junagadh‘*Jhc limes of India'’ News Sendee.HJNAGADH. September 74:	Sec-tion 14 A Cr.P.C. was clamped on Junagadb and a surrounding area of eight kilometres	shortly after noontoday, following disturbances. d he order will remain in force till bri-dav.Some incidents ol arson and looting occurred this morning. A few places of worship 'acre reported damaged. The tioub’c ha-wan with incidents of stone-throwing on Dhal Road.Nadiad curfew extendedThe liims of India New.s ServiceNADIAD, September 24; Curfew which v.,w to cvplic at 7 . a.m. at Nadiad today. w emended till to-monow. Curlew was also imposed on Ana nd.the police opened fire at Anand twice toda.v. Two people were injured. Iu\e cases ol arson wcie repotted.The Smd.u' Palet l Olivet sity. Yallahh Vidyana ear. has been closed indefinite-SSP MPs to study riot situation’i’fie Times of India News ServiceAMMLiDABAD. September 24; Mr. George Fernandes and Mr. Raj Narain. SSP .M.P.s, v' ill ariive here tomorrow, to study the i ior situation.They will aim attend the all-part’-' and all-community conference scheduled for Saturday wo help re1-lore comnnin.il harmony.Train traffic poorihc Times of India*’ News .ServiceATT A IF DA BAD. September 24: Twenty-two short distance trains from Ahmedabad were cancelled today as only 90 out of a staff of 5.000 were working. Traffic in other trains was poor. Only 2(> per cent, of a daily average of 40.000 passengers arrived.Fong-distance trains were running late as only a skeleton staff was manning the four stations—Maninagar. A-.irva. Sabarmau and Kalupur.All important installations were being manned by 900 railway protection force men.Indian Airlines put on an addiiio-n d iheht for Bombay today.‘‘Pravda” blames right-wing- groupsMOSCOW. S:pi.-mb--r M :	'1 hoSoviet Communist Baity newspaper.:t'i.	\ s' -i to i day blamed i ieiu-w ingelement' Mm opposed the nufioiuli'-a-t on ol haiiC ior the notine in Gmarat rm\d{7 chained that in fh» pan al'o the same element' had stirred up -trift among India's religious factions.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Karnataka group clash claims 4The Times of India (J86J-current); Sep 4, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Karnataka group clash claims 4BANGALORE, Sept 3 (PTI): Four persons were stabbed to death and 75 injured when members of rival groups clashed at Ramanagaram town, 50 km from here, early today., One petrol bunk, a saw mill and 50 huts besides, other property were set bn fire by miscreants who went on a late night arson spree that continued till this morning. Four industrial sheds were ransacked and machinery by them damaged in a nearby industrial estate.Reports reaching here said the trouble arose following a petty quarrel between members of rival communities who were gambling. The rival groups started throwing stones at one another and were joined by supporters on both sides.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Three killed in firing, clashes in AP townThe Times of India (J86J-current); Sep 25, 1984; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1KURNOOL, September 24 (UNI),nPHREE. people were killed, two in : A police firing and one: in clashes . between people belonging to . two communities, in .Atmakur town, about 80 km from here, today, the police said. ■ ,	'	/-	.	' ,	': The clashes were a sequel to an altercation between the two • cdmmu-' nities following a public meeting in which, some Telugu Dcsam leaders participated. .	JFive persons received stab injuries and were hospitalised. 'Prohibitory orders have been promulgated in the town: and patrolling . intensified. . , rThe police- said lethal weapons and ’crude:bombs;were.used in the clashes;/ When the; ‘ police intervened,; inissiles 'Were hurled .at .them; They; opened fire twice, in self-defence.:FT! -reports: A. 12-lj2-hour'Cur-; fey/ was clamped and the ‘ police .opened , fire . m Kazipet and ...five •Villages. ■ of- ” Cuddapah . district to-dispierse ; warring groups !lpf Telugu Desm and - Congress workers. In; tHd/-clash ; coiintrymade bombs were used, according to ‘ ia report reaching the;. police headquarters in. Hyderabad.When the . bursting1 of teargas shells and, • lathicharge • proved .ineffective, the police opened fire thrice within ! two hours j to i quell the •clashing groups, indulging in heavy stone-throwing/-They also hurled bombs at * the police.One person was admitted to hospital with a bullet ‘.injury. ’ Six country made bombs were recovered from one of the groups, the report said.The curefw, imposed at 5.30 p.m., will remain in force till 6 a.m. tomorrow. ' ;	1 ;■'/;■ / •••,. '	' • ' .■!Day curfew in all 15 police station limits of the strife-torn old city, and surrounding areas of: Hyderabad was totally lifted today following improvement in the situation. . ;	‘	..With three1 more persons succumbing to injuries at the Osmania general hospital since last night, the death toll in the violence that broke out on September 9 rose to 31.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Clash marks temple entry, 8 hurtThe Times of India (1861-current); Aug 11, 1988; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1NATHDWARA (Rajasthani. August 1U . ?tl & UNI).THE police and local residents clashed outside the Nathdwara temple here today, in which eight persons, including a DIG of police, were injured.-----1- ?-— J U.1. .ium;-iuui lUUljOliO WUtOilippCU Uitdeity inside the Srinath (Lord Krishna temple.The clashes started when the Hari jans, mostly local sweepers, were re turning from the temple. The residents who had earlier opposed the hev} police presence in the town, startec throwing stones at them. The polia lathicharged in a bid to disperse the mob.Reports said that soon after the Harijans’ entry, the temple adminiS' tration asked the large number o: policemen deployed at the temple tc vacate the premises to stop “poll ticisation of the issue.The Harijans were given a tra ditional welcome by Rakesh Baba, sor of Takayat (head priest) with “Kanthi Dora” and “Tulsi” leaf.This move of the local citizens and the temple administration came as z surprise to the district authorities and the citizens who had gathered there in thousands. The people were informed of the “pooja” and “darshan” ovei loudspeaker.The temple authorities opened the main door around 7.30 a.m. to let the Harijans inside the temple and soon locked the gate. The Harijans came out of the temple after about 90 minutes, All the shops and other businessestablishments remained closed for the third day today in Nathdwara in response to a bandh call given by the Nathdwara Sangarsh Samiti to protest against the Harijan entry. :UNI adds from New Delhi: The welfare minister, Mrs Rajendra Kumari Bajpai, announced in the Lok Sabha that a group of Harijans entered the Nathdwara temple in Rajasthan around 11 am. this morning.Replying to a short-notice question of the Telugu Desam member, Mr S.M.	Bhattam, she said those who entered the temple were mostly “safai mazdoors” and were received by a son of the head priestThe announcement was received by Congress members with the thumping of desks, while those in the opposition made sarcastic remarks against the Rajasthan governmentThe minister asserted that no un-touchability was being practised, and said, “there is no ban on the entry of scheduled castes into the Nathdwara temple for offering prayers.”Mr Jaipal Reddy said, instead of arresting the Shankaracharya of Puri for declaring a ban of the entry of Harijans into the temple, Swami Agnivesh was arrested recently by the state government while he was leading a people’s march to the temple to protest against the ban.Mrs Bajpai said Swami Aginvesh was not arrested by the state government, “but persuaded to discontinue the march” in view of threats by the people to disturb itReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿60 hurt in clashes in TellicherryThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Dec 30, 1971; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 160 hurt in clashes in Tellicherry“The Times of India” News ServiceKOZHIKODE, December 29: Tellicherry town and the suburbs were cordoned off by the police today tovent the influx of hooligans into this riot-torn town where at least 60 people were injured, some of them seriously, in a clash between two sect ions.J he authorities also imposed a prohibitory order under Section 144,Cr. P.C., in the entire Tellicherry taluka of Cannanore district.Trouble started when a youth hurled a chappal at a religious procession. Some processionists chased the boy into a hotel which was wrecked when the youth was defended by some of those inside.Outsiders poured into the town this morning and there were a number of clashes.PTI adds from Trivandrum:Six policemen, including the deputy superintendent of police, were injured in the stone-throwing. About 40 persons had been arrested.The State Home Minister, Mr. K.Karunakaran, said in the evening that the situation was now under control.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿2 die in AP police firingThe Times of India (J86J-current); Sep 23, 1983; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 12 die in AP policeHYDERABAD, September 22 (PTI): Two persons were killed when police opened fire to quell a rioting mob > which threw stones at a Ganesh procession in Kadri town of Ananthapur district last night.According to the police headquarters here, the mob also set lire to a number of shops in the bazar........The superintendent of police and the district Acollector have formed a peace committee ana the situation was reported to be “well under' control”.With two more deaths due to stabbing in the strife-ridden old city today, the death roll in the wave of violence • which broke out early this month has mounted to 24, according to the police.The two deaths occurred in clashes between groups of people near Mir Jumla tank and in Kazipur flocality* The police rushed to the trouble spots and dispersed the warring mobs.About 7Q people were arrested last night, taking the total number of arrests-itt connection with the violence' to 2)00. Further atrests, including prft-ventive, jwould be made, the commis* ■sioneh^bf city police; Mr. & Vijay* Rama Rao, told reporters; today; : ;U.R. PM to present; Jnanpith awardNEW DELHI, September 22 (PTI): The British prime minister, Mrs. Margaret Thatcher, will present this year’s Bhartiya Jnanpith award to celebrated Hindi poetess Mahadevi Verma at a ceremony in New Delhi, on November 28.	■'	.i.	. ■	,The invitation to Mrs.. Thatcher to present the award has been bent by the government of India, as the ceremony is coinciding with the Commonwealth heads of government meeting (CHOGM).. The award is normally presented by either tbe President of India or the Prime Minister., The presentation of the award by the British prime minister will underlined once again the close relationship that exists between India and Britain, as much in cultural and educational as in commercial and: econd-’ mic fields, says a BIS release. .Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Jharkhand bandh near totalThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 10, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 15Jharkhand bandh near totalThe Times of India News Service RANCHI, October 9:	TheJharkhand bandh called by the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) yesterday to press for the creation of a separate state and for the presentation of the report of the committee on Jharkhand Matters (COJM) in Parliament was near total in south Bihar.Except for stray incidents of violence at the Jamshedpur railway station and at Birsa chowk here, the bandh was by and large peaceful. Two people were arrested here and 25 at Jamshedpur.Members of the All-Jharkhand Students Union (AJSU), moved about the city in groups and forced public vehicles off the road and shut down shops.2 CPM members killed in clashThe Times of India News Service CALCUTTA, October 9: TwoCPM supporters were killed in a clashwith Jharkhand Mukti Morcha activists at Katadihi village in Purulia yeterday.The clash occurred when CPM supporters opposed a bandh called by the JMM, according to official sources.;' Two persons were arrested in con--nection with the incident and a police !'picket was posted in the village.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿DR. JESSUP TO FLY BACK TO U.SThe Times of India (1861-current); Mar 15, 1950; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 7DR. JESSUP TO FLY BACK TO U. S. Senate Body’s ChargesPARIS, March IS: Dr. Philip Jessup, President Truman's roving Ambassador, has cancelled ship passage for Wednesday and is flying home tomorrow.He announced this here today shortly after hearing that the Senate Committee investigating loyalty in the State Department had accused him of being favourably disposed tpwards Communism.Dr. Jessup said: “If the committee wishes to spend a little time studying allegations that I am favourably disposed towards Communism, I , will be happy to appear before it.”—P. T. I. -Reuter.Nagpur ArrestsFrom Our Own CorrespondentNAGPUR, March 14:	More than150 persons have been arrested in Nagpur and Section 144 has been prumulgated. A nine-hour curfew from 8 p.m. has been imposed and other precautionary measures have been taken by the Nagpur police today following a stabbing incident Last night, in which one person was killed and two were, seriously injured.There has been some tension in the city since last Sunday, when communal disturbances occurred at Kamptee, about ten miles from here. About 500 Muslim families from Kamptee came to Nagpur and it is understood this gave rise to rumours and created further tension in the city.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿LATE NEWS: GOA TEMPLES TAKEN OVERThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Aug 10, 1954; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 3LATE NEWS“The Times of India News' Service • BELGAUM, . August 9:	Alltemples j in Goa were taken overiby the j Government today and guards posted in front of them ,,as a precautionary measure, it is learnt.THIRTY FEARED DROWNEDINDORE, August 9:	Thirtyout of 6l passengers of a ferry boat are reported to be missing when the boat capsized on Sunday after dashing against .a submerged temple in the floodedNarbada in Barwani Districtr• : %P.T.l. •DUTCH INDONESIAN UNIONTHE HAGUE, August 9: Dutch and Indonesian working groupshave reached agreement on the new protocol and accompanying letters which will supercede the Dutch - Indonesian . Union.— Reuter.POLICE CLASH WITH CROWDUJJAIN, August 9:	Nineconstables were injured when a crowd gathered in front of the Saheecl park' after a “martyrs’ day” meeting had hurled stones on a police van. The police used Canes to disperse the crowd, resulting in four persons sustaining minor injuries. Order has now been restored and the city is .peaceful-—F.T.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Sambalpur HartalThe Times of India (J86J-current); Mar 21, 1964; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Sambalpur Hartaline l imes ot India” News ServiceSAMBALPUR, March 20: Following the worsening of the situation in Jharsuguda this morning, strong armed police and military patrols were deployed in the town. Two persons with knife injuries were admitted to hospital.	_The Cliief Minister, Mr. Biren Mitra, cancelled his Jharsuguda programme today.	.Sambalpur town, meanwhile, observed hartal today in protest against the atrocities on tire minorities in East Pakistan by; the Government there.Jharsuguda: Eight persons were taken into custody following the burning of four liquor shops in the rural areas and stray stabbing cases before the imposition of the 24-hour curfew.—P.T.I.6 KILLED IN JAMSHEDPUR Curfew Imposed.JAMSHEDPUR, March 20:	Sixpersons were reported to hav<^ been killed and several injured in stray cases of stabbing and incendiarism in different parts of the city today.An eight-hour curfew from 9 p.m. to 5 a.m. was imposed on the city.The authorities had promulgated orders under Section 144 Cr.P.C. last night, prohibiting the assembly of five or more persons and carrying of weapons.—P.TI.2	U.N. OBSERVERS HURT IN BLAST Ramgarh MishapJAMMU, March 20: Two U.N.observers and a Pakistani military official were seriously injured in a grenade explosion in the Ramgarh graveyard area yesterday.A report received here today said that the observers had gone to the disputed graveyard to take steps to stabilise the cease-fire in the area, as agreed upon by the divisional commanders of India and Pakistan.— P.T.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Four Dead In East Pak RiotsThe Times of India (J86J-current); Mar 5, 1961; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1DACCA, March 4.CV)UR persons died in disturb* ° * ances which broke out on ti March 2 in Saidpur in Rangpur District of East Pakistan, an offi-ciai hand-out released here today said.Enquiries show that a dusk-to- b dawn curfew is in force in Saidpur ? Town, about 250 miles north of * Dacca. The disturbances: there y&b jj the third of the kind in East Pakistan 1 in the past ten days.The hand-out said that the police * opened fire to quell the disturbance, v but details of casualties^ if «ny,in the. police firing were notv available, tThe hand-out also said that of the j people injured in the disturbances in 1 the Khulna and Daulatpur areas on ( February 26, “two persons are re- * ported to have died.” ■	^This brings the total of deaths so 1 far to seven in the Khulna and Dau* latpur riots of last Week.	jOfficial Communique jThe official hand-out given to press correspondents today on die ( two-day old disturbances in Saidpur ; said: “On March 2 miscreants at- ; tacked and injured fifteen persons at ; Saidpur in Rangpur District Two persons were killed and two others subsequently succumbed to their injuries. The police opened fire on the miscreants but details regarding thenumber of persons injured in thepolice firing are not available. Heavy reinforcements were rushed to Saidpur and curfew was imposed by the local authorities. About 200 persons have been arrested. Military courts have been convened to try cases (arising out of the disturbances) at Khulna and Daulatpur.”—P.T.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿4 DIE IN HOOGHLY DISTRICT RIOTS: CURFEW CLAMPEDThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Apr 1, 1969; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of Indiapg. 14 DIE IN HOOGHLY DISTRICT RIOTS: CURFEW CLAMPEDwTfae Times of India” News' ServiceCALCUTTA, March 31rFHEpolice fired nearly 170 rounds and burst 125 tear-gas shells to quell communal clashes in the Telenipara and Paikpara areas of Bhadreswar police station in Hooghly district late last night and early this morning.Four people were killed in the incidents, at least three of them in the police firing. Fifty people were injured, 20 of them in the firing and the rest in bomb explosions. Nearly 200 people have been arrested.After a few hours’ lull, when disturbances started again this morning* a curfew from 8 a.m. today to 6 a.m. tomorrow with a break of two hours in the afternoon was imposed on the affected areas. 'An order under Section 144 Cr. P.C. banning meetings, processions and the carrying of weapons has also been promulgated.^ .	•	*The Home (Police) Department said there was no doubt whatever that the disturbances were planned and provoked by some organised body.* The Government would deal with the situation very firmly. Lawlessness would not be tolerated and people conspiring to disrupt public .tranquility or to promote enmity between communal and regional groups would be dealt with severely.BASU’S APPEALThe department said suitable instructions had been issued to the police. They would use such force as might be necessary to tackle anti-social elements and would resort to firing if that became necessary. Peace would be maintained at all costs. There would be no half measures.certain organised forces had entered into a conspiracy to fiustrate this purpose. *’l wish to make it perfectly clear lo them and everyone else who may be disposed in their favour that our Government will not tolerate such conspirators or any attempt on their part to promote disaffection between communities and disunity among the people of this State. All conspirators against the Government will be dealt with .as they deserve.”RIFLES IF NECESSARYMr. Basu said the police had, therefore, been given strict orders to use such force as might be necessary to put down effectively and within the shortest possible time all attempts at lawlessness. “If the use of rifles be-' comes necessary, rifles will be used.”The Deputy Chief Minister said it was one thing for a body of people to say that they were engaged in a legitimate democratic movement. Such movements the U.F. would honour. But it was a totally different thing for any group of people to indulge in arson, looting and killing for the purpose of hurting any regional or com-1 munal group. The Government’s answer to any attempt at arson, looting or killing would be “severe and forthright.” On this matter there would not be any compromise.Only a few weeks ago, riots had occurred at Telenipara over the celebration of the holi. The situation in the area had been quiet since then.In a broadcast appeal this evening, Mr. Jyoti Basu said the Government had viewed with grave concern the communal clashes. The U.F. Govern-' ment was determined to maintain peace and to guarantee to all communities the right to exist peacefully and honourably. Peace and amity among people speaking different languages and professing different religions were the most cherished ideals of the U.F. Government and it was determined to uphold them.Appealing ft) the people to help the Government in the accomplishment of this DurDose. Mr. Basu alleged thatReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿MadrasThe Times of India (1861-current); May 24, 1954; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9PunjabIn CouncilMEMORANDUM BY : ■	4 MEMBERS,	' v	,----MThe Time* of India” New* ServiceCHANDIGARH; May 21: Four members of the Punjab Legislative Council today submitted to the Chairman, Mr. Kapur Singh, a memorandum requesting* that they be accorded recognition an an Opposition Party in the House.	’Chaudhri Kartar Singh, a newly-elected member, has been nominated leader and convenor of the group which will be known as the Peoples Party”.- -The signatories to the memorandum are: Rao Mohar Singh (Zamindara League), Gyani Kar-tar Singh, Ramdayal Singh (Akali Dal) and the convenor himself.According to parliamentary convention, these four members can be recognised as a party because they constitute one tenth of the total strength of 40 members in the Council. This will be the first Opposition Party in the Council, if it receives recognition.<■»ni1ac(2lt1rijt»((c1(iMadrasFACTION FIGHT IN VILLAGE Eight Injured“The Times of India” News ServiceTIRUNELVELI, May 23: Eight persons were injured in a clash between two factions of villagers at Theneerkulam village, about two miles from here last week.It was stated that a part of villagers, who had taken a herd of cattle to graze on the tank bed, clashed with the servants of a landlord who claimed ownership of the land.The police have registered cases against both parties and are investigating. The villagers, it was stated, claimed the tank bed was public property.15 INJURED NEAR CALICUT Drum Beat QuarrelCALICUT, May 23: Two persons suffered stab injuries and 13 others were hit by stones this morning when a marriage procession was passing by a mosque in Panniankara, a village about one mile from here.When the procession was passing, some persons in the mosque objected to the beating of drums. In a clash that followed both the sides pelted stones at each other, The marriage procession was later allowed to proceed with escort provided by the armed reserve.—P.T.I.The condition of the linseed croi In Madhya Pradesh is officially reported to be satisfactory, it is learnt in Jubbulpore. The tota area under linseed cultivation is estimated at 997,300 acres, whlcl is 1.6 per cent, less than that o; last year.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Death stalks BhagalpurThe Times of India (J86J-current); Oct 28, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 20BHAGALPUR,October 27 (PTH.THE riot-torn city of Bhagalpur in central Bihar is today a ghost town under seige.With gun-toting troops taking over the administration and an indefinite curfew continuing for the fourth day running, the atmosphere is charged with tension.Intermittent gun shots, bursts of bombs black smoke billowing from charred houses and the plight of the seriously injured in hospitals on the other, present heart-rending scenes.Nath Nagar is the worst affected area on the outskirts of Bhagalpur town which witnessed the carnage after a religious procession turned violent on Tuesday.With toll steadily climbing, the Prime Minister, Mr Rajiv Gandhi, rushed to the strife-tom town yesterday. He was accompanied by the Union home minister, Mr Buta Singh, and the chief minister, Mt S.N. Sinha,Local people said when the religious procession was passing through the Nath Nagar area and heading towards Bhagalpur, someone raised provocative slogans, igniting the communal flame. Soon members of the other community gathered anda pitched battle followed.■ They had an axe to grind with the local police and the superintendent of police for having liquidated members of a dreaded gang of criminals belonging to that community.The situation went out of control las the police fire over. A dozen rounds in vain to disperse the large crowd. Four persons were killed in the firing and nearly 200 houses in this commercial town were set ablaze.The riots soon engulfed fresh areas and the army was called out to assist the civil administration. But their number proved to be inadequate with the trouble-makers bent upon defying curfew and shoot-at-sight orders.The toll could not be confirmed till today. While officials maintained 45 deaths, reports quoting unofficial sources put the toll at well over 70 They felt that several bodies had washed down the ganges.The situation took a new turn when the government decided tc replace the police superintendent, Mi K.S. Dwivedi. The local people revolted, and it was finally explained that the chief minister’s directive to strengthen the police administration by deployment of one or two additional officers had been misunderstood and the transfer order stood cancelled.One of the worst victims of the mayhem was a local Congress leader — seven members of whose family were killed yesterday. The leader escaped as he was hiding elsewhere in the town.That elaborate planning had gone into the flare-up was evident from its systematic escalation requiring 20 companies of para-military forces to be flown in here to meet the situation.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew continues in RajouriThe Times of India (1861-current); Aug 25, 1984; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 7Curfew continues' ' in RaiouriJAMMU, August 24 (PTI): The indefinite curfew clamped in the border town of Rajouri continued for the second day' today, after night-long clashes between two groups of people.The overall situation in the town, 177 km from here, was officially described as “well under control and peaceful.”The border township of Rajouri was brought under curfew yesterday when two groups indulged in large-scale violence using sharp-edged weapons and country-made pistols, in which several persons were injured, including two with bullet wounds,Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Shoot-at-sight in BalasoreThe Times of India (J86J-current); Mar 29, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Shoot-at-sight in BalasoreBHUBANESWAR, March 28 (UNI): Curfew was imposed and shoot-at-sight orders issued to the police in Soro in Balasore district after two people were injured in police firing on a violent mob during the BJP-sponsored “Orissa bandh” today.Official sources said the mob attacked a CRPF patrol with petrol bombs and set afire several vehicles and some houses during the bandh called to protest against the government's failure to protect life and propeny during the Bhadrak riots on Sunday.The sources said Bhadrak town however remained peaceful, with an indefinite curfew being in force. The CRPF staged a flag march in the town today.Life in the state capital remained normal, barring some stray incidents of stone throwing at buses. Vehicles plied and offices and educational institutions functioned as usual.Train services were also unaffected, iReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿U.P riot toll rises to 22The Times of India (J86J-current); Oct 15, 1988; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 9U.P. riot toll rises to 22LUCKNOW, October 14: The toll ii the riots in Muzaflfamagar rose to 22 with three more people succumbing ti injuries in the past 24 hours.Meanwhile, indefinite curfewclamped on the three towns of Muzalfamagar, Aligarh and Khatauli in thi wake of group clashes over the Ran Janambhoomi-Babri Masjid dispute continued today.With the three deaths, total toll ir the recent riots since October 8 in th< three towns has gone up to 28. Foui people died in Aligarh and two ir Khatauli.	.The state home secretary, Mr S. K.Tripathi, said barring a minor case oi arson in Muzaffamagar last night no incident was reported from anywhere in the state.Mr Tripathi claimed that the situation in all the three towns was “well under control.”Harijans, Vanniyars clash againCUDDALORE, October 13 (PTI);Harijans and Vanniyars clashed at Puduppalayam village near Panruti in Tamil Nadu’s South Arcot district today within 24 hours of signing a peace accord by leaders of the two communities.	. 'About ten persons were injured in the clash, which broke out when Vanniyars in Puduppalayam objected to a Republican leader hoisting a party flag there. The police and revenue officials brought the situation under control.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿’Varanasi mosques will be protected’The Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Aug 1, 1995; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 5‘Varanasi mosques will be protected ’The Timet of India Newe ServiceNEW DELHI, July 31.Uiiiuu iiumc luimsicr o.d. cuavantoday told the Lok Sabha that protecting the mosques in Varanasi, venue of the “jalabhishek” by activists of Bharatiya Janata Party, Vishwa Hindu Prishad and Bajrang Dal, would be the responsibility of the Centre and the Uttar Pradesh government.If the state government fails, the Centre will exercise its responsibility of protecting the mosques,” he said during the zero hour in response to serious concern expressed by Raj-nath Sonkar Shastri (Congress) and others that convergence of over a lakh of activists was a threat to the mosques.Amidst protests from BJP benches, Mr Chavan said the main opposition party was equally responsible for maintaining law and order since it was supporting the Mayawati government in the state.“1996 (the year of next general elections) is very much on your mind. I know that,” he told the BJP members.Mr Chavan said he was in touch with the state government on the necessary security arrangements of the mosques which are already cordoned off. If something happens despite that, it will be the responsibility of the Centre and the state government. 1 have to discharge my own responsibility.”^----- - -Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿KASHMIR'S FUTUREThe Times of India (1861-current); Jun 16, 1953; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 5KASHMIR’S FUTURE I Indo-Pak Friendship Vital To State , ,SRINAGAR,, June 15:	In aThe Times of India” News Service broadcast, talk ove^ Radio Kashmir last night, Sheikh Abdullah, the Kashmir Premier, said that the betterment of Kashmir lay in mutual ’friendship between India and* Pakistan.Well-wishers of .Kashmiri the Premier added, should pray that the Nehru-Ali efforts in London to find an amicable solution to the Kashmir tangle should bear fruit, because none could live peacefully If tension prevailed between the two neighbouring countries.The Kashmir ‘ Premier characterised the Jammu agitation as anti-national, reactionary and retrogressive.”	;He claimed that the vast majority of the people was not prepared to go .beyond the terms of accession and the existing relationship of the State with India.The solution suggested by him in 1947, he added, held good even today, that Kashmiris alone should be allowed to decide whether ‘thb State’s betterment lay in ac* ceding to India or Pakistan or by maintaining friendly relations with ooth of them.NO BAILFOR MR. PETER EVANS ; Kenya DecisionMOMBASA, June 15: The Supreme Court Justice, ( Mr. Ralph Windham, on Saturday dismissed the third attempt to get bail foi Mr. Peter Evans, arrested British barrister, who was declared a prohibited immigrant by the Kenya Government.Dismissing the application made by Mr. B. R. Sharma, Asian counsel for the 42-year-oid barrister,Mr. Justice Windham told , the Supreme Court here it would be contrary to the colony's safety if Mr. Evans were allowed his freedom.Mr. Evans who helped to defend Jomo Kenyatta, the African convicted of managing the Mau Man Society was declared a prohibited immigrant because he accepted the brief without an employment certificate from the Government.—ReuterPOLICE USlHrEAR GAS IN JAMMU Six Arrested 'JAMMU, June 15:	Police usedtear gas in one locality of Jampiu city yesterday to disperse a crowd of Praja Parishad demonstrators who threw stones at the police.Six Jan Sangh workers were arrested for leading an unauthorised Praja Parishad procession.A spokesman of the Parishad stated yesterday that the agitation could be caled off only when its demand.; were accepted and Implemented. Before launching the movement, he said, the Parishad had taken all constitutional steps” of reaching a solution, but Government’s attitude left it no alternative but to defy the illegal laws” of the State;He was replying to recent state-raents of certain Ihdian leaden urging withdrawal of the agitation.—P.T.l.Saigon Strike ThreatSAIGON, June 15: Eight hund fed French civil servants—mor< than three quarters of those wont ing in Saigon, in Indo-China-decided yesterday to strike unlesi their wage claims were met withii a week.The civil	servants—includingJudges, Magistrates and polic< officials—are members of th< French Indo-China Civil Servants Union. They met in a theatn yesterday to protest against th< Government’s wage policy sinci the devaluation of the piastre, th< Indo-China currency, last month —Reuter.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Stray incidents in SuratThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jan 19, 1993; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9Stray incidentsinSuratThe Times of India News Service |j AHMEDABAD, January 18: 'Tension prevailed in Surat city as stray incidents of stabbing, stonethrowing and arson were reported this afternoon. However in this icity, after nearly ten days’ of iclosure, the public and private ioffices, the banks and almost all the markets in the walled city area remained open as curfew was relaxed during daytime today and the situation continued to remain peaceful.Yesterday, two persons were killed and eight others injured in stabbing on the Rander Road and also in the Soni Falia area of Surat after two groups had clashed.Barring the incidents in Surat city, the situation today remained normal in Broach, Jhalod, Sinor and Patan towns, where curfew was_i*uAn at/vV\t K/xurcReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Fresh rioting in north DelhiThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); May 27, 1993; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 13Fresh rioting innorth DelhiThe Times of India News ServiceNEW DELHI, May 26: Oneperson was injured in police firing and three others, including a policeman, were wounded after being hit in stoning when rioting broke out once again in the Andha Mughal area of north Delhi late last night.The police said the second round of rioting was the handiwork of the residents of Vasudev Nagar who had planned it to avenge the previous night’s drubbing they had reportedly got from the rival group. But the police had no clue the retaliation was being planned.Now, the police are not taking chances. They have met representatives from both the sides andcollected feedback from ; them. They have also positioned policemen on vantage roofs to prevent stone-throwing carried out mostly from the roofs. Pickets stationed in the area have been strenghtened.Last night, the police fired 11 rounds and used six teargas shells to disperse the rioting residents of Gali nos 7, 8, 9 and the adjoining Vasudev Nagar.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Lifer for three Bihar riotersThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 20, 1993; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9Lifer for three J Bihar rioters- > iThe Times of India News ServicePATNA, October 19: The special judge hearing the Sitamarhf riot cases, Mr G. D. Patnaik, has convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment three persons for murdering three members of a minority community in Riga bazar chowk in Sitamarhi, according to the report reaching here. One of the accused was acquitted.Arguing the case, the special prosecutor appointed by the state government, Mr Brajkishore Prasad, contended that the rioters, Kameshwar Choudhary, Niresh Chaudhary and Shambhu Prasad and another attacked and killed Abdul Jabbar and his wife and set . afire their house.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Two more die in temple violenceThe Times of India (J86J-current); Nov 10, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 3Two more die in temnle violenceNEW DELHI, Nov. 9 (PTI): Two lives were claimed by Ayodhya-re-lated violence today as the army was withdrawn from the riot-hit areas ol Ahmedabad and Baroda and curfew relaxed in several towns of U.P. and Bihar, following improvement in the situation.One person was stabbed to death in Indore and another died in the police firing in Khilla Ganapur in Mahbub-nagar district, Andhra Pradesh. Following the stabbing incident, police patrolling was intensified in Indore.The army was withdrawn from the sensitive areas of Ahmedabad and Baroda as the situation in the riot-hit areas in the two districts besides Banaskantha and Panchmahal was reported to be peaceful. Day curfew was relaxed in Ahmedabad, Baroda, Godhra, Palanpur and some other places.In Baroda the police lobbed teargas shells to disperse two clashing groups last night. One man was hospitalised there this morning with stab injuries. The police claimed it was a case of personal enemity.Curfew was relaxed in several towns of UP, including Meerut and Allahabad.In Aligarh, day curfew was lifted in all parts of die city. However, night curfew would continue to be in force from 6 p.m. onwards.The district magistrate, Mr Desh Deepak Verma, said the situation was fast returning to normal in the city and neighbouring towns like Hathras and Atrauli.A Ranchi report said curfew was relaxed for IS hours in the city while was completely lifted in Jamshedpur.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Police fire at mob in SuratThe Times of India (J86J-current); Sep 7, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Police fire at mob\mSuratSURAT, September 6 (PTI): The otherwise peaceful Ganesh idol immersion festival in Gujarat was today marked by an incident of stone-rpelting near the Udhna railway yard here, leading to police firing.The police fired four rounds in the air to disperse a mob indulging in stone-pelting when a procession was passing through a sensitive area.Five police personnel, including an inspector, were injured in the stonethrowing, the police said.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿POLICE FIRING NEAR AGRA: ONE DEAD, MANY HURTThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Aug 13, 1960; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 5POLICE FIRINGNEAR AGM tOne Dead, Many Hurt“H» Hines of India News ae^nAGRA, August 12:	One pei$onwas reported to have been killed and several people were injured this morning when the police opened firef:,bn a violent crowd at Ferozabad,“28 miles from here.A P.A.C., squad , has 'since been despatched and meeting, processions and other demonstrations have been banned in the area,	.The District Magistrate and sepior police officials have gone to study'the situation.	,	-It was stated that the trouble began early in the morning when some ifer-sons belonging to one commodity started opening a door in a mosque that faced the Chandra Prabha Temple. This was objected to by members of another community. Rioting followed after an exchange of hot words.	I',The police then intervened and'the crowd attacked them, too. A police inspector was injured. The police fired tear-gas shells to disperse ihe Crowd, but as the demonstrators were adamant fire was opened resulting in the death of one person. .	:Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Ahmednagar tiring kills oneA Staff ReporterThe Times of India (J86J-current); Sep 8, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Ahmednagar firing kills oneBy A Staff ReporterBOMBAY, September 7: One person was killed in police firing in Ahmednagar yesterday following a stone-throwing incident during the Ganesh immersion procession.The minister of state for home, Mr J. T. Mahajan, said that the situation was under control and curfew would be in force till 6 a.m. tomorrow.Forty people, including the deputy superintendent and 21 police personnel, were injured in the stone-throwing.The police arrested 27 people.The state police control room also reported another incident at Jamod in Buldhana district where the police had to open fire to disperse a mob.Baroda (UNI): An indefinite curfew was imposed in Rajpipla town of Bharuch district near here yesterday following group clashes.Official sources said the police opened fire to quell stone-throwing mote.Two persons injured in the firing were brought to the Sayqji General Hospital here for treatmentReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Ban in Malegaon after violenceThe Times of India (J86J-current); Oct 20, 1983; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 6Miss Jyotsna Bfansode of Maharashtra Education Society’s High School, Baramati, who bagged a gold medal in the drawing competition organised by Shankar’s International, New Delhi.Ban in Malegaon after violenceNASIK, October 19 (PTI): Prohibitory orders have been clamped in .Malegaon town till midnight ot October 24 after some persons of; a Mpharrum. . procession indulged... jn stone-throwing yesterday, the police said today... \	.. .Tension prevailed in Shashtri chowk >fter some miscreants pelted stones on jthe residence of the president of the Patit Pawari, Mr. Bhima Oavli,. the Malegaon police said. ,; The situation in the town was officially stated to. be “under control and peaceful” this morning.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Violence in Meerut, 7 injuredOur Staff CorrespondentThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 1, 1982; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1By Our Staff Correspond cmMEERUT, September . 30.TARGE - SCALE violence _ erupted again in Meerut city, leaving seven people seriously injured and necessitating •he despatch of reinforcements to about ' 12 places to rescue police pickets last bight.While the district magistrate Mr. Shambimath, said the admi oistration and the police force ha( to face. rioters for about twc hours till midnight Tast night, of ficial > reports pointed out that thf attack on the police and on mixec population areas showed, pre-plan ning. Nearly 50 people were rounded up last night., Anxiety and tension are noticeable everywhere in the town. Around 1C p.m. yesterday a red light was seer at three spots. A few minutes latei the light turned green. This was followed by the bursting of crackers.As slogans and counter-slogans'were raised in several localities, street lights the Azad Nagar, Gul?ar Ibrahim, .Islamabad and Lisadi Road bypass areas went off, plunging the area in-io .darkness. .Acid- bottles, brickbats and lighted crackers were hurled on the Shorab Gate police outpost; forcing its personnel to frantically call for reinforcements.The PAC commandant in Azad Na-gar. a predominantly minority community area near Islamabad, had tc fire, several rounds in the air to, protect nis men, ■who were being at-Sacked by rioters.' The district magistrate confirmed' the firing by the -offi-■ cer but made no comment on the’'injuries reportedly sustained by two policemen.	,LETHAL ARMS SEIZEDAccording to an official source, one . person; was stabbed, near. Hapur Road today. -' An unidentified body: bearing .marks , of injuries was found in a “nullah” in the Zakir colony at Hapui Road in the afternoon.	•A number'of lethal weapons have•	been recovered. Besides knives, spear; end swords, the police -haul in Islamabad included eight country-made. bpmbs, __ 34 cold. drink, bottles filled . with acid and five big, acid bottles,in the Azad Nagar locality, where several crackers were burst, the police recovered • seven bombs, five spears four knives and 52;, acid-filled bottles according to an official press, release.The Sohrab Gate, Sari Bihleem anc Podiwada localities, ail under the kot-wali, witnessed cracker exDlosions anc prolonged orickbatting from housetops., Arrows with burning tips were aimed at two houses in Podiwada Acid bottles were hurled at some other houses. The police recovered seven knives in this locality and the fire brigade bad to put out fire in twc or three houses.	'It is reliably learnt that police personnel have again been ordered to•	shoot at sight people found indulg-ing in arson or violence. The district magistrate declined to confirm or deny the report;Mr. Shambunath said there were explosions last night near the disputed place of worship in the Shah-ghasa area, where round-the-clock curfew was in force. He said one person, who had come from Gulaoti in Bulandshahf district, had been .arrested.He said the police control room received numerous calls regarding violence last night, but most of these were found to be fake. ■Though the _ district magistrate, did not _say anything about the signalling, which preceded the eruption of trouble, there are reliable reports that it was after the green signal that crackers were exploded in Guzri Bazar, at 10.15 p.m. The trouble spread like wild fire to othef localities. By the rime the police force took up position in Guzri Bazar and in the nearby^ Anantram-ka-Chhatta, there was brickbat throwing from housetops in the Islamabad and Prahalad Nagar areas,	■	,	‘BAN ON IMAM’S ENTRYA senior police officer of the. Lisadi Gate police' station was allegedly sur-roynded by a group of rioters. He was rescued by an additional force which reached the spot within a couple of minutes.Meanwhile, the additional . district magistrate. Mr. Chandrahas Sharma, has extended the ban on the entry of the Imam of Jama Masjid in Delhi, Syed Abdullah Bukhari, into Meerut district up to the midnight of October 30. The earlier ban ended tonight.Patrolling has been intensified in the city and cantonment areas to enable reinforcements to reach any vulnerable spdt within minutes.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Fresh A.P. riots claim oneThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jan 1, 1993; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 11Fresh A.P. riots claim oneHYDERABAD, Dec. 31: One person was killed and two people were injured in communal violence at Idgaon today, taking to six the toll in communal violence in Adilabad district of Andhra Pradesh, report UNI & PTI.Trouble started after three boys belonging to one community al-► See edit: Task in Gujarat, Page 10legedly teased a girl from anothei community this morning. The girl immediately complained to the elders and soon members of the community attacked the three boys, killing one on the spot.An Ahmedabad report says a young woman was killed and two others were injured in separate stabbing incidents in the city today as violence continued in Gujarat.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Ahmedabad IncidentOur Own CorrespondentThe Times of India (1861-current); Jul 8, 1950; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 5Ahmedabad IncidentFrom Our Own Correspondent AHMEDABAD, July 7: Five persons were injured in a fight between two groups in which aerated water bottles were freely hurled ' in a locality outside Shahpur Gate last night.The clothes of a servant employed in a restaurant were, it is stated, besmirched by mistake by the owner of an adjoining “pan” shop. This .minor incident led to a fight between the two parties.^ The police Have arrested five persons.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿ONE KILLED IN FACTION FIGHT: HOLI REVELRIESA Staff ReporterThe Times of India (J86J-current); Mar 21, 1954; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 10ONE KILLED IN FACTION FIGHT“Holi” Revelries...... V »T..By A Staff ReporterOne 'man was killed and six others were injured in a faction fight between two rival groups of “Holi” revellers at Sion, Bombay, on Friday night.Refusal by one group to take part in a dance was stated to have been the. cause of the affray in which, knives, sticks and flaming brands were used. The two rival groups consisted mostly of industrial workers of the Sion-Koliwada Government Housing Society’s buildings.Had it not been for the timely arrival of a police party the Incident would have taken a serious turn with grave consequences.	»The injured men were rushed to the Sion Hospital where one of them, Vithal K. Kundan, 25-.ypar-old hotel boy, died shortly after admission. Among the other six injured one is stated to be in a serious condition.The police have arrrested two men in this connection.Two persons were injured when two , groups of “Holi” revellers clashed . at Colaba, Bombay, on Saturday evening.The Injured persons were taken to hospital and four men were taken into, custody by the police.The police were unable to throw light on the cause of the faction fight, in which lathis were freely used.'Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿HOLI RIOTING IN VIRAMGAMThe Times of India (1861-current); Mar 2, 1953; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of Indiapg. 1HOLI RIOTINGIN VIRAMUAM*3	Killed And 11 InjuredAHMEDABAD, March 1.Three persons were killed and 11 injured, three seriously, in a riot that broke' out in Viramgam. 40 miles from here this afternoon, according to a telephone message from the iolice sources received here tonight.Contacted on trunk telephone about the situation, a police source told P.T.I. that the riot was precipitated when a Hindu Mahasabha-led procession against cow slaughter passed through a mixed locality. Some stone-throwing by miscreants on the procession was reported, the source added. In the mob frenzy that followed the reported stone-throwning, three persons were killed and at least 11 were injured, the police source said.Some houses were set on fire by the mob and two fire brigades were rushed from Ahme-dabad to help the Viramgam Fire Brigade..CALCUTTA MOBS DEFY POLICE , Colour Throwing ’The. Time* of India New* ServfoaCALCUTTA, March 1? Caltfuf* tafs police stations were full 6t Moll merry-makers by midday yesterday	when 547 had -beenarrested. All were found carrying syringes and buckets of coloured water on the streets, in defianc* of the police ban.Mobile police vans, speeding through streets On which thera was little other traffic, picked them up.Despite	the elaborate polica':oreoautions and the various notifications designed to prevent ‘ex* cesses’ on this spring festival, coloured powder* and water wera • freely used on the streets. 'Trams and buses were off the streets till 1 p.m. after which th* city sobered down and returned to normal.P.T.I, adds: About SO persons received, minor injuries in “holi-brawls” in Calcutta and Howrah during the day. They were given first aid.Three hundred and fifty persons were taken into custody for sprinkling coloured waters on unwilling persohs and resorting to Holi revelling on high roads, which had been prohibited by ths police authorities.Kutch Budget Deficit“The Time* vf India News ServiceKUTCH MANDV1, March 1: The Kutch budget for 1953-54 shows a deficit of Rs. 4,32,52,000, estimated receipts being Rs. 37,48,000, and expenditure Rs. 4,70,00,000. A sum of Rs. 3,20,00,000 for the development of Kandla Port has been sanctioned, making the total expenditure Rs. 7,90,00.000.44 Arrests In BhopalBHOPAL. March 1: Forty-four persons were arrested here today after several clashes between members of two communities. Brickbats. and stones were freely exchanged in the fights. The trouble started in. a busy locality of the city when some miscreants threw stones and brickbats on a procession taken out in connection with the Holi festival.Dr. Shanker Dayal Sharma, Chief Minister, went round the city and appealed to' the people to remain calm ~ and • desist from Spreading false, rumours.—U.P.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Two dead in Delhi riotsOur Staff CorrespondentThe Times of India (1861-current); Jul 27, 1982; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg. 1RIOTS broke out in the Rodgram and adjoining areas under the Lahori Gate and Hauz Quazi police stations today following last night’s violent clashes in which two persons were reported to have been killed rind several,others, including eightnnlice'meri. iniured.	:At 1.30 p.m. the authorities imposed curfew in the riot affected areas till 8 a.m. tomorrow: Prohibitory. - orders under section 144, Cr.,P.C. have been imposed in other areas of the walled city to prevent recurrence of violence. A senior police official described the situation as “tense but under control.”Patrolling in' the entire walled city area has been intensified arid police pickets of the Delhi , Armed Police (DAP) and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) have been posted at 'strategic - points. .	.The police fired about 23 rounds and burst 30 tear gas shells to disperse the rioters last night and today. Several scooters, cycles and shops were 'set on fire during, the rioting, T;he police said the fires were extinguished immediately-	i- -.	^	-A number of persons have been detained for questioning in connection with the violent iricidents. The investigations into the riots have been handed over to the crime branch of the Delhi police. ■The narrow streets of the riot affected areas, smack behind the G.B. Road, were littered with broken glass, splinters _ and brickbats. The police have advised the residents to stay indoors and have appealed to all to maintain communal harriiony and peace in the area.	.Earlier this month. Several persons were injured in clashes between twoEiuups wincn were repurwuiy spar&cu off by a quarrel between two tea-shop owners in the Chandni Mahal area.The two persons who died in last night’s violent clashes were identifiedas Bliure and Mohammed Amin, the bodies have been sent for post mortem examination, the injured, including several policemen, have been .admitted to the JP Hospital. The .condition of one was described as serious. Among the injured was Mr. Ajmer Singh Chauhan, assistant commissioner of police, Darya Ganj.	•The trouble arose around 9 p.m. last night when Kalu Bhagat, a Balmiki resident of the Rodgram area was reportedly • attacked by some • members of the other community following a quarrel between children. He reportedly picked up his cot and ran towards an adjoining area inhabited mostly by Balmikis. Soon a large number ’ of persons, belonging to the two. communities took to the streets and clashed with lathis, brickbats, and soda water -bottles.	. .. .	'	•TENSION PERSISTEDAt about midnight, senior, police officers declared the situation as under control. While partolling was intensified, qo -curfew of prohibitory orders were imposed. Resident’s of the area alleged that no senior officers were present in the earlier part of the riot which lasted for almost an hour.Tension, however, persisted in the area as the news - of the two deaths spread in the wailed city:	Whileelders; including the Shahi Inirnam of Jama Masjid, toured the area late last night and early this- morning, trying to placate, the agitated residents, an undercurrent of resentment was apparent.Around li a.m. today, a large group of several hundred young men collected in the Gali Nayarian. - The wave of rioters swept through thenarrow lanes and came upon a cart loaded with empty bottles,. The mob pounced upon the bottles and started hurling them around.As the police moved in to disperse them, several • rounds were fired from some of the roof-tops. The police returned the fire and tear gas shells were, lobbed again, A section of the crowd took to the rooftops and /resumed ibrickbactirig- The situation was brought under control within an hour. -	•The minister of state for home, Mr. P. Venkatasubbiah, announced iii the Lok _ Sabfta today that ; a magisterial inquiry had been ordered into theriaclific .	■ .Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Firing on mon attacking SRPThe Times of India (1861-current); Aug 16, 1981; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9RAJKOT, August .15 (PTC): The police fireji; four- rounds in “iself-ehce’l iwhen^ about 45 people attacked. SRP jawains with ilathis arid axes at' Vavdi village in Jamkandorna taluka of Rajkot. district yesterday. ,, T$0 ?|[awads ‘yttyt: Mured in; the vat^» tack iknd ^erei; admitted to; hospital;. accotJflittg to report* ^received here. Twenty-two people have been arrested in' connection with this incident, the repoftsWaid: , i.	,•Th6 ^(strict % collector of Rajkot. Mr,', yinod Babar, and the DSP of Rajkot, (rural), Mr. K. R,.&mShik, rushed;.'to5 the village last night; * Ad-, ditional ' police and SRP meiii from Dho^ji a«4 Rajkot have been rushed; to tnd, iVilfetge. The situation was reported 4;ah^ “peaceful” to’day. '-SatP case in Banda / district of UP' BANDA, Adgustr 14 (UNI) f Mrs. Dasia.' 65,, committed sati by jumping into*, the burning pyre of her husband in Kuswa .tillage tihder Attra police station1, 4|»0iut 40 km frotpVIiere, on Tuesday/'According to . an official • report, the womaiji committed sati in the presence of thousands of people and the police.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Mahim rioting leads to lathi-chargeA Staff ReporterThe Times of India (1861-current); Dec 23, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Firing to disperse Bangalore mobThe Times of India (1861-current); Mar 22, 1984; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 7Firing to disperse Bangalore mob\ BANGALORE, March 21 (PTI): A constable. firfcd in the air after police used' teargas and lathi-charged in vain to disperse two clashing groups in Hubli around midnight last.! According to delayed repotrs received here, the clash, in which stones and deadly weapons were freely used and five houses set on fire, began when one group was taking out a Holi procession and the other objected.When the constable fired in the air, a section of the dispersing _ crowd surrounded him, snatched his rifle and assaulted him. However, the police managed • to recover the rifle.The constable has been admitted to hospital. Ten policemen were injured and 50 persons have been arrested. The situation is still tense, the reports said.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Fresh arson cases in IndoreThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 17, 1989; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Fresharson cases in IndoreINDORE, Oct. 16 (UNI).FRESH cases of arson were reported from various localities of Indore city today even as the curfew, clamped on Saturday following group clashes, remained in force without a break.According to the police, fire tenders had been rushed to Nanda Nagar, Nehru Nagar, Snehlataganj, Sabji Mandi, Khajpur Bazar, Mukeri Pura, Qila Maidan, and Banganga area this noon.Meanwhile, the Madhya Pradesh chief minister, Mr Motilal Vora, today claimed the situation in the city was well under control and was fast returning to normal.Mr Vora, accompanied by the Union ministers of stale, Mr C. K. Jafar Sharicf and Mr Radhakri$hna Malviya, Ihe MPCC chief,f.^lrShivabhanu Solanki and the state home minister, Captain Jai Palsingh visted the affected areas and the Maharaja Yashwantrao Hospital, where about 60 injured perosns were under treatment.The violence which erupted after disturbances at a religious procession here on Saturday, has taken a toll of 23 lives. The district collector, Mr Bhagirath Prasad, said 21 bodies were received at the hospital itself during the past three days.He said more than 700 preventive arrests had been made in the city and searches for illegal arms were continuing.There has been no relaxation in curfew since it was clamped on October 14 but for two hours this morning, people were allowed to purchase milk and vegetables.A correspondent, who visited sevrtforal areas of the city today, saw fire tenders busy controlling the fire in Champabag, where at least 20 transport godowns were razed to the ground.In the Jawahar Marg area, at least 50 shops were destroyed and several multi-storied houses damaged in the fire. Hundreds of motor vehicles were also set afire. Border Security Force personnel have been posted as a precautionary measure.In Silawalpura locality, a two-storey building adjacent to a place of worship was gutted and fire tenders were still trying to control the fire. Two places of worship in the area were also damaged.During searches in the nearby area, policemen seized materials used to prepare petrol bombs. A four-storey bulding in Kagdipura was ransacked.In jabran colony, mot'C |ha}i 150slum-dwellings had been destroyed in the rioting.Ahmedbad (UNI): The indefinite curfew imposed on Sidhpur town in north Gujarat’s Mehsana district last evening following incidents of group clashes, arson and looting, has not been lifted today, according to a report reaching the state police head-; quarters here.However, the authorities gave ten hours relaxation in curfew from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. in Palanpur town of Banaskantha district. No untoward incident was reported.The police also lifted curfew from Vijapur town in Mehsana district yeaterday as normalcy had returned in the town which had seen group clashes last week.	.,(Govt «patby arevedled, (PageReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿7 Killed In Clashes In Raigarh: Curfew Imposed: Meetings BannedThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Mar 20, 1964; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Curfew Imposed: MeetingsBanned“The Times of India” News ServiceBHOPAL, March 19Government sources said curfew had been imposed. Meetings, processions and demonstrations had been banned. The situation was now well under control.	,.‘Eighteen persons have been arrested. Strong police reinforcements have been sent lo Raigarh from the neighbouring districts. Home guards have been called out.	,CROWD DISPERSEDP.T.l. adds: The trouble started with a few cases of stabbing in the jute mill area, and later spread to other localities of the town, reports said. At 5 a.m., a small crowd attacked the house of a member of the minority community. The police dispersed the crowd, but there were incidents of arson later in the day.A press note by the Madhya Pradesh Government here tonight said that,	as a	result	of	“the suddenoutbreak of communal violence, seven persons of the minority community lost their lives.’’Raigarh is the headquarters town of Raigarh District in Bilaspur. Division.	,	:A telephonic message received at the Government headquarters said steps	were	being taken	to assure fullprotection	to the	life	and propertyof members of the minority community. ,Curfew has been imposed from 4 p.ni. (o 7 a.m. tomorrow and an order under Sec. 144, Cr. P.C., prohibiting the Assembly of five or more persons and carrying of weapons, has been promulgated in Raigarh town.Tile Deputy Inspector-General of Police, Eastern Range, and the Commissioner of Bilaspur Division have reached Raigarh.Many people of the minority community have been evacuated from the affected localities and accommodated in the police station premises.The Government . appealed to the people to remain calm ,and refrain from any action that might aggravate the situation.—P.T.l.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿25 injured in Calcutta violenceThe Times of India (J86J-current); Apr 18, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 325 injured in Calcutta violenceCALCUTTA, April 17: Twen-tyfive persons were injured, three of them seriously, during a series of clashes between' two groups and subsequent police firing at the Hastings area in the city today, reports PT1.While the seriously injured were admitted to .hospital, the rest were discharged after first aid, the state's home secretary, Mr Manish Gupta, told reporters here.Altogether 47 people were arrested and 13 police pickets set up at the areas. Senior police officials along with the reinforcement from the Calcutta Armed Police are camping at the troubled spot.The trouble llared up following a bomb blast at the area where a prayer meeting was in progress. Two groups from different communities engaged in the clash where brickbats and other weapons were freely used. The clash later spread to some adjoining areas, Mr Gupta said.Mysore scion joins BJPBANGALORE, April 17 (PT1): The BJP leader, Mr A. B. Vajpayee, today announced that the scion of the erstwhile Mysore royal family and former Congress MP, Mr Srikan-tadatta Narasimharaja Wodeyar, an eminent economist, Prof K. Vcnkalagiri Gowda, and A. T. V. and film artist, Dr Maya Alagh, have joined the BJP.Addressing a press conference here along with the new entrants to his party, Mr Vajpayee, said their joining the BJP would further strengthen the party.Camp on consumer awarenessBy A Staff ReporterBOMBAY, April 17: A six-day camp intended to train youngsters to be alert consumers will be held by the Mumbai Grahak Panchayat from April 22 at the Gokhale College, Borivli (west). The camp is open for students who have passed F.Y.J.C.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Hyderabad clashThe Times of India (1861-current); Apr 10, 1967; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Hyderabad clashHYDERABAD, April :9: The police burst tear-gas shells to disperse two groups who clashed following a .qiiarrel . between .Two., boys..-iii-... the-Feellchana locality here today. 'Members of both the groups set thatched houses on fire, damaged a tea stall and threw stones before the police dispersed them.Ten people, including three policemen, were injured and eight of them were hospitalised.	.The police arrested six \ persons — P.T.I.Patiala meets P. M.NEW DELHI, April 5: The Maharaja of Patiala met the Prime Minister. Mr?. Indira Gandhi, here today.He is understood to have discussed the recent developments in the Punjab and the chances of the Congress Party forming a government there in the event of the united front’s Ministry not obtaining a vote of confidence in the Assembly.—P.T.I.Rajya sabha sessionNEW DELHI, April 9: The Rajya Sabha will sit on Tuesday also to complete pending official Bills, it is learnt. The House was scheduled to adjourn tomorrow.—P.T.I.	.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Much ado about ten-minute Urdu bulletinNalapat, M DThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 10, 1994; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg- 11By PAD. NelapotBANGALORE, October 9.n just 48 hours, a somnolent city has become a hive of tension, with daggers, petrol bombs and stones breaking out from sullies and balconies.The provocation? A 10-minute bulletin in Urdu on Bangalore Doordarshan, from 7.45 p.m. to 7.55 p.m. Officials in the Doordarshan Kendra here claim that similar programmes are also telecast in Patna, Hyderabad, Lucknow, Srinagar, Delhi, Bombay, Calcutta and Bhopal, and that ‘none of the Kannada programmes have been cut as a consequence of the Urdu broadcast’In a state where around a tenth of the population claims Urdu to be their mothertongue, such a step should not have caused any controversy. In Karnataka, it has led to riots, deaths and a divide between the state’s people. All that it took for this was a volleyof stones on anti-Urdu processionists in the City Market area at 11 a.m. on Friday. The processionists reacted by indulging in arson and stone-throwing, and the cycle of violence was set in motion.Riots spread throughout the city on Friday. Knots of anti-Urdu protestors would stone and torch vehicles, enter and loot shops and stab individuals who they felt were not as enthusiastic about halting the Urdu telecast as they were. On Saturday, the tension continued.As this correspondent was visiting the R.T. Nagar area around noon, a group of youngsters were seen stopping a bus and smashing its windows. Fortunately, there were no petrol bombs with them. The activists then ran towards the main road and vanished. If there were any policemen around, they were in plainclothes and off dutyNot that the police can be blamed^ It is almost impossible to patrol every street in a city of 40lakh inhabitants. Short of panic measures such as full curfew and mobilisation of para military units, little can be done should small groups of activists suddenly materialise in a narrow street and destroy buses and shops.Some in official circles hinted off-the-record at conspiracies, pointing out that Bangalore and its adjoining areas have a history of sponsored violence. A carefully orchestrated series of communal clashes paved the way for the dismissal of the Veerendra Patil ministry in 1990. A year later, key supporters of the then chief minister Mr Sarekoppa Bangarappa were believed to be behind the anti-Tamil riots that broke out in the city.During the night before the riots broke out, this correspondent had toured some parts of Bangalore, coming across groups of individuals building up stockpiles of stones and other weapons without any hindrance from thepolice. It was only after two days, when the violence had become too extensive for the Centre to ignore, that the state government moved decisively enough to restore order. When it did,the mobs vanished as quickly as they had first emerged.However, visual evidence collected from several areas of tension indicated that most of the I violence in Bangalore has so far been random and un-coordinated.Should the “hot” phase of the agitation continue, there are high probabilities that certain political foes of the Moily government may decide togive it clandestine financial and or-, ganisational support. As yet, however, the BJP is the only political party that has wholeheartedly thrown its weight be-hindthe agitation against the Urdu telecast.The state government, in an attempt at controlling the tension, has reportedly asked the Central government to suspendthe Urdu telecast. Should this be done, the daggers, stones and petrol bombs would have achieved their purpose.There is a broader question hovering about the troubled streets of this city. In Srinagar and other places in Kashmir Valley, when agitators resort to violent methods to make a political point, they are condemned by the national parties as being “antinational”. But in what way is a Srinagar dagger or a Doda petrol bomb different from one in Chickpet or Munireddypalaya?What is the logic behind excoriating the one while supporting the other? Should the Centre concede the agitators’ claim, it would in effect be saying that violence in one location can be rewarded, while that in another needs to be put down ruthlessly.The mobs in Bangalore are as little concerned about the niceties of democratic debate as are those in Srinagar.GORILLA TWINS: These gorilla twins were bom at the Bronx zoo in August last Only five pairs of such twins were reported to have born in captivity in the world.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿15 killed, army out in AligarhThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Dec 9, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 115 killed, armyoutThe Times of India News Service LUCKNOW, Dec. 8.ARMY has been deployed in Aligarh city as a fresh wave of communal violence spread soon after the killing of four passengers of the Gomti express which was stopped about three furlongs from the Aligarh railway station this afternoon.The riots claimed 15 lives so far and 12 were injured, including five policemen.Gunshots rang out at some places in the city while mobs rioted at some other places. Three houses and six thatched houses were set ablaze. A truck of the Provincial Armed Constabulary and a tent of the PAC camp nearby were set on fire. The rifle of a PAC jawan was snatched by the mob.The violence that followed the forcible stoppage of the superfast express sent shock waves throughthe city and groups indulged in violence.An indefinite curfew, which was imposed on three thana areas yesterday as violence broke out in the Sarai Sultani, Pakki Sarai and some other areas, was extended to two additional thana areas, following the Gomti express incident.Violence was sparked off in the city yesterday when people coming out of a religious place attacked a PAC picket.An official spokesman admitted here this evening that tension gripped people in Badaun and Kanpur cities. But he maintained that necessary measures were being taken.An explosion which caused damage to the exterior of a place of worship yesterday evening led to tension in Badaun. It spread further when members of the public caught hold of two boys and beat them up.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Peace restored after clashes in BhiwandiA Staff ReporterThe Times of India (1861-current); Jul 10, 1969; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 5Peace restored after clashes in BhiwandiBy A Staff ReporterPEACE has been restored in Bhiwandi, 5.6 kilometres . from Thana, following two incidents of mob violence.The trouble originated when a married woman complained of indecent behaviour by two boys of another community.	'It had a repercussion in front of an Urdu school when school-going boys came to blows and stones and aerated water bottles were freely used on Tuesday morning.Mr. Bhaskar Mali, a Jana Sanghworker, and four boys were injured. Two policemen were manhandled by the crowd.	_Two incidents of assault near a cinema house were reported after Tuesday midnight. Members of the Bhoi community were attacked.Mr. S. V. Ohamankar, a veteran social worker, Mr. Zumberlal Ka-lantri, MLC (Cong.), and others visited the affected areas soon after the reports of Disorder were received.Of the ten people injured, one is in hospital. . Members of the peace committees assured the Collector Mr. D, N. Capoor,. that they would do their best to avoid any recurrence of violenceReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Lok Sabha may sit till TuesOur Special CorrespondentThe Times of India (1861-current); Dec 23, 1978; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9Lok Sabha may sit till Tues.By Our Special CorrespondentNEW DELHI, .December 22: The current session of Parliament is likely to be extended till Tctisday to facilitate legislation on the constitution of special courts to try emergency offences.Since the Lok Sabha will discuss the hijack issue for six hours tomorrow, the government today sought to hold a special session of the Lok Sabha on Tuesday to facilitate the remaining legislative business.The Rajya Sabha is meeting on Tuesday. A- final decision to hold a session of the Lok Sabha on Tuesday will be taken tomorrow.Th's will mean that the release of Mrs- Gandhi from jail will be delayed. Parliament was originally scheduled to be adjourned today and the prorogation of the session is announced normally two days after the adjournment of Parliament. Mrs. Gandhi has to serve her sentence till the prorogation of the Lok Sabha, Three readings on the proposed bill on special courts will be done on Tuesday-No abolition of gold control act: PatelNEW DELHI. December 22 (PTI):The finance minister, Mr. H. M. Patel, today ruled out abolition of the gold control act.Nor does the government intend to have fresh ceiling on possession of gold, he said.Replying to a halThour discussion raised Mr. P. M. Sayeed (Cong.-I) on gold auctions, Mr. Patel said that these auctions were suspended be: cause speculative forces began to get a hold which was not healthy-Strike in HAL called offBy Our Staff CorrespondentPUNE, December 22:	The nine-day-old strike by the employees of Hindustan Antibiotics Limited (HAL) has been called off. The workers will resume duty tomorrow.The strike has been withdrawn following intervention by the Union petroleum minister, Mr. H. N. Bahu-guna, and the commerce minister,Mr. Mohan Dharia. .	.Front to keep out of civilian govt, in IranPARIS, December 22 (AP): Iran’s Opposition National Front, yesterday formally rejected participation in any civilian government headed by Mr. Golam-Hossein Sadiqi. a veteran opponent of Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi.Durga Deulkar deadBy Our Staff CorrespondentNEW DELHr, December 22: Dr.(Miss) Durga Deulkar, former principal and.director of Lady Irwin College, died this morning after a brief illness. She was 66.Dr. Deulkar was recognised in India aind abroad as an eminent educationist and a pioneer in home science education. She was awarded the Padma Shfi in 1976.One killed in Bijapur firingBy Our CorrespondentBIJAPUR, December 22: One per-ion was killed and another injured in police firing yesterday at Jamkhandi,60 km. from here,, where large-scale arson and looting of shops have been reported.	, .	,According to the police, a deputy iuperintendent of police was injured.The situation in the area is said to be normal today after two days of violence. /A deputation of merchants led by an MLC yesterday told the deputy commissioner that the police remained mute spectators while, large-scale arson and looting of shops were taking place. According to them, some anti-social elements entered some houses and snatched gold ornaments from the women.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Violence unabated in BarodaThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); May 20, 1985; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Hie Hmes of India News ServiceBARODA, May 19*yiOLENCE spread to more localities in Baroda, where two thickly populated area* covered by the Wadi and citj police stations have been under curfew since yesterday. , Tti®. police fired seven rounds in different places today to disperse •mobs indulging in stone-throwing. Three rounds were fired in areas which have not been placed under curfew.. One person injured in police firing m Baranpura in Wadi and another who was beaten up by miscreants have been admitted to hospital.■_ PTI adds from Ahmedabad: However, in this hitherto worst-hit .city the law and order situation continued to show steady improvement Except for two stray incidents of arson and stabbing, calm prevailed.• Three huts were set on fire in the army-controlled Bapunagar area, while one person was stabbed in- another army-controlled suburb of Gomtipur.k Baroda, the police also resorted to lathi-charge and burst about '39 teargas shells to disperse stonethrowing mobs.	;Earlier, the DSP, Mr. V. P. Dave, fired in self-defence in the-Vithalni fol area of Baroda. The Baranpura locality under the Wadi police station and the business district of Raopura tower area were two. other places where the police opened-fire to quell wolent mobs.	. ,	.The police resorted to firing) after lathi-charge and bursting of teargas shells proved ineffective. Incidents of heavy stone-throwing were also reported from a number of localities.Mr. Vijay Shah, secretary of the Baroda journalists' association and importer of the Gujarati daily, Sandesh was injured when a stone hit him in Shiyapura locality of Raopura. Three student leaders of the Navrachna Samiti were taken into custody in connection with the incident, the police said.	-	.Earlier, an S.R.P, jawan was rushed to a hospital with a leg injury, while a constable was injured in stone-throwing incidents.	•In view of the improvement in the law and order situation in the city, the authorities announced relaxation in curfew for periods varying from four to 112 hours in. all curf^Wrbputia •areas, including the aritiy-cbntrdlled walled city*-Saraspur, Bapunagar and Gomtipur for tomorrow.Meanwhile a six-merpber delegation, of opposition MPs anivea^nerli, on a day’s visit fm an on-the-spot study of the situation demanded, a judicial inquiry into the disturbiaii^S in Ahmedabad and other parts of Gujarat and stressed the need for a national consensus on reservation policy. .Addressing a press conference, the; Janata party leader, Mr.. Madhu Dandavate, said a commonly accepted modality should be evolved at tilenational level to solve problems aris-rng out of the present reservation policy.Mr. Dandavate said the chief minis* 1 ter would not be able to deliver the goods. Hence, someone from the Centre should ensure that the vexed problem of reservation is discussed across the table, - he said.( TOINS adds: The team of opposition leaders of parliament, also demanded immediate dismissal of the | three-month-old Madhavsinh Solanki ministry and early' Central intervention to bring back normalcy to the state; :/	■:	1Talking to newsmen, after. meeting a cross-section of the people here during a hectic tour of the riot-tom city, Mr. Dandavate said: “We have come to realise that the; state government has miserably failed to perform its primary duty' of maintaining law and ordet” His view was corroborated by other members of the factfinding ^ mission of the opposition parties in parliament.The Janata party leader said: “Inculcating a sense of security among the people is. far more important at this juncture than any other issue. And Mr. Solanki will not be able to deliver the goods at all.He said the team would present its observations to the Prime Minister, Mr. Rajiv Gandhi.The fact-finding team would meet other leaders of opposition parties on their return to New, Delhi . and discuss in detail the situation prevailing in Ahmedabad and other towtis of Gujarat for the last three months, he added.	...... .Mr. Dandavate and other members of the team said priority should be given to bringing peace back to the .state. All sections of the society — the common man, pleaders, journalists and even those who started the anti-reservation agitation «■— felt insecure, they pointed outExpressing doubts about the “administrative capacity” of Mr. Madhay-U.S. Protectionist. Threat, By Prem Shankar Jhti, Page 8sinh SblahkL Mt. Dandavate > said: “He has np moral right to continue in office in the present circumstances’’. He {minted* out that the chief minister had failed to stop the orgy of violence or book the culprits. ;The 'team, which arrived here this morning from Baroda* comprised, besides Mr. Dandavate, Mr. Ashvini Xtimar (BJP), Mr. Ram Naresh Kush-waha (Lot Dal), Mr. Suraj Prasad ■‘tCMJr Mrt G. M. Bamtwhla and Mr. Sufeman Seth (both Muslim League),-It . touted the riot-affected areas ' .tinder Astodia, Dariapur, Kalupur, Gomtipur and Bapunagar police stations, the relief camps and the office of a vernacular daily, which had become the target of’police fury. They also met people individually and in grouts at the circuit house., Mr. Dandavate said it would not be fair to state at this stage their findings but they would certainly want the ahny “to stay for a longer time in Ahmedabad and elsewhereas the people have lost faith in the police force, which played a partisan role in the recent disturbances.”Meanwhile five CRP jawans suffered burns when acid was thrown on their picket at Nadiad in Kheda district of north Gujarat yesterday, the sixth and final day of the bandh organised ^ in the taluka town by anti* reservatwnists. •.Two young men riding a scooter, threw the acid at the picket, after the police had seized more than four litres of the acid following a combing operation in the town, the state police control at Ahmedabad said.Two miscreants also threw an acid bulb at a SRp picket too but it missed the target. Bpth of them escaped before the police picket could fire at them. However, one of the miscreants was identified,'the-(Police control said.	1.Ahmedabad continued . to be quietfor the second day today and a phased curfew relaxation for five or more hours was granted in the affected areas. .	•	;Meanwhile, > a Baroda magistrate ordered a .police inquiry yesterday into the alleged police misbehaviour with women, following a petition from a woman. The petitioner had charged some police, officers of obscenity towards women., IGSS in RE VENUEBusiness and industry In the city are incurring heavy losses due to the prolonged disturbed conditions. Revenue losses to government and semi-government establishments were also stated to be quite heavy. Educational activities have been suspended in the' state for the past three months.Meanwhile, a 25-member delegation of the state Congress MLAs is leaving for New Delhi today to urge the Centre and party leaders not to remove the chief minister,, Mr. Madhavsinh Solanki, in an attempt to find a solution to the anti-reservation agitation.	;The delegation, to be headed by Mr. Budhaji Chauhan, MLA would include some ministers.PTI from Bangalore: The Karnataka chief minister, Mr. Ramakrishna Hegde, has said the anti-reservation agitation was sparked off in Gujarat since the motives of the chief minister of that state were not pure.He: had ni'ade the announcemejit before ' the' elections with the intention of capturing-ithe imagination of the backward classes to get their support” Mr. Hegde. said in his comment on the; £nti-re£ervatjon .agitation in an interview to a^New Delhi based newspaper. .	'-■ Mr: Hegde - said - suc1r‘fb:: a^tapn • would riot break out in Karnataka tie-cause people here had accepted the System.	,v.	V:New Delhi: The Jawanarlal, Nehru University has decided to shift candidates. who had opted Ahmedabad as their centre, for the. JNU entrance examination to Bombay. This has been done in view of -the disturbed conditions in the Ahmedabad .city, says a JNU press release. All those, who wanted to take the examination at Ahmedabad can ftow report at Central School No. 1 Colaba, Ttotnbay.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Fresh A.P. riots claim oneThe Times of India (J86J-current); Jan 1, 1993; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 11Fresh A.P. riots claim oneHYDERABAD, Dec. 31: One person was killed and two people were injured in communal violence at Idgaon today, taking to six the toll in communal violence in Adilabad district of Andhra Pradesh, report UNI & PTI.Trouble started after three boys belonging to one community al-► See edit: Task in Gujarat, Page 10legedly teased a girl from anothei community this morning. The girl immediately complained to the elders and soon members of the community attacked the three boys, killing one on the spot.An Ahmedabad report says a young woman was killed and two others were injured in separate stabbing incidents in the city today as violence continued in Gujarat.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Murshidabad simmers with communal tensionBose, ShikhaThe Times of India (1861-current); Apr 19, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 7Murshidabad simmerswith communal tensionBy SHIKHA BOSEThe Times of India News Servic BERHAMPORE, April 18.C'UMivnjJNAL lension in me /Murshidabad district of West Bengal has acquired a knife-edge quality. Rumours, fuelled by suspicions, are enough for a violent outbreak.m L/utiiMii, n was a luiuvui uuApril 10 of a Hindu being kidnapped that led to the clash between the twc communities. The process of restoration of normalcy on April 13 was jeopardised as a rumour has spread that a Muslim youth was missing since April 10.Even more alarming was that on April 8, the peace committee negotiations fell through and there was a clash at the meeting venue in the presence of policemen. The district magistrate, Mr D. Chakravarti, said the peace negotiations failed to resolve the problem created by cows eating up cultivated crops.The district superintendent ol police, Mr B. D. Sharma, pointed out that the Domkal incident indicated that any disagreement between individuals of the two communities could quickly flare up into a community clash. Every minor incident today contained the kernel of a majoi conflict, he added. The police were under strain because there was nc way they could handle the rumour: that were constantly afloat.Mr Sharma said that after April 10 even while he, along with the deputy inspector-general, Jalpaiguri range, and the district magistrate were damping at Domkal, thousands of Hindus mobilised across the river inNadia district and were preparing to cross the dry river bed to combat a mob of Muslims. The fact that no Muslim mob had collected was immaterial, because a rumour had spread in the predominantly Hindu Karimpur area opposite Domkal, that Muslims were preparing to attack Hindus.The residents of Berhampore said, there would be mobilisation by both communities as soon as a rumour spread. Political observers in the district pointed out that the level of, violence had increased and where earlier, sticks, knives and hatches were used, today bombs and guns were employed.Police officials admitted that firearms were freely available as there were illegal arms manufacturing units in the districtReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Tension in PanvelThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Mar 25, 1985; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1The Times of India News ServicePANVEL, lylarch. 24: The .atmosphere here has become tense again following, a complaint by some, women residing in the 'Kublmwada area that acid bulbs, aerated water, bullies and stones were thrown from a place of worship around noon.The news spread and within minutes shopowners downed their shutters and auln-richshaws went off the road.Soon after, a large procession of women was taken out to the tehsil-dar’sr office to demand police, protection. They were assured by the collector, Mr. Sanjay Naiayan. .hat their demand would be met immediately,	■On Friday, there was tension here after shops belonging to members n£ one community were looted and set on fire. However, normalcy returned yesterday with no report of auv untoward incident, 'and ft people arrested in connection with the arson were released on bail. 'Today, 32 people were arrested as a preventive measure. Six companies of the SRP have been called in und police pickets set up in sensitive areas. Mr. Narayan toured-the Kubh-arwada area and appealed to the people to maintain the peace.■ Reports reaching here said the violence had spread to the nearby Vadghar village, where two mutton shops were set on fire.Meanwhile, a Shiv Sena leader, Mr. Srish Butla, has told -the collector that those responsible for Friday’s arson had not been arrested though a complaint was lodged with.' thev-irv T *n*«	'Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿4 Killed In Jammu FiringThe Times of India (1861-current); Feb 1, 1953; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1' ,;“The Times of India” News Service_____	,.	JAMlfU, January 31. ‘ ‘JjvUR persons were killed and two injured yesterday when the police fired on a group of processionists at Mobat Jourian, about 30 miles from Jammu.a vjruvernmenL press note said that the processionists pelted tjie police with stones, injuring some policemen.The police then made a lathi” charge, but the mob refused to disperse and made a determined attack on the small police force.The Magistrate, fearing danger to the lives of policemen and officers, ordered them to open fire.Lawlessness prevailed in some parts of Jammu, according to a Government spokesman. Attacks on the police and Magistracy were becoming a daily feature. Latterly schools and dispensaries were being raided.Mr. Winston Churchill has launched an appeal for £1 million from Britain and the Commonwealth to preserve and endow the nation’s principal church, Westminster Abbey, where the Coronation will be held.NATIONAL OF PAKISTAN HEADS NAVYBy MANZOORUL HAQUE “The Times of India News ServletKARACHI, January 31.Pakistan’s senior service^ the Navy, is the second ser- , vice to be nationalised at the top.Rear-Admiral Haji Muhammad Siddiq Chaudhuri took over command of the Royal Pakistani Navy from Vice-AdmiralJ.	W. Jefford at an impressiv® ceremony today.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Gujarat toll 4The Times of India (J86J-current); Apr 15, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9BARODA, April 14 (PTI): With one more person succumbing to injuries yesterday, the toll in the violent incidents and police firing at Virpur town of Balasinor taluka in Kheda district and its neighbouring villages in Lunawada taluka of Panchmahal district touched four, the police said.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿WAGE REVISION DEMANDEDThe Times of India (J86J-current); Sep 20, 1956; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 5WAGE REVISION DEMANDED Airline Employees’ PleaBy A Staff ReporterThe General Council • of the Air Corporations (Employees’ Union at its meeting held at Calcutta last week decided to serve the Air-India International Corporation arid the Indian Airlines Corporation with ;a charter of demands.Mr. V. Lobo, General Secretary of the Union, disclosing this in Bombay on Wednesday said that the meeting had chalked out a course of action, in case both the Corporations failed to concede the. demands of. the TJnicn within a specified^ period.A committee-had been , set up to execute, the same, he added.The charter of demands submitted to the Air-India International - Corporation urged a revision of the wage structure of the employees of the Corporation and sought recognition to ,t.he Union• The /neetipg also observed that the Indian Airlines Corporation had failed to fully implement “a large nuriiber of items” of the agreement wliieh the Union entered into with the Corporation.Six persons were injured in a clast that occurred at Sonapilr Lane; near Princess Street, on Tuesday night, among some persons] who.-were returning, after the immersion of a Ganapati idol at Chowpati. All the, six injured were arrested by the police.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Mob killed party worker: BJPA Staff ReporterThe Times of India (J86J-current); May 2, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 3Mob killed party worker: BJPBy A Staff ReporterBOMBAY, May 1: The city BJP today alleged in a statement that one of its workers was killed and 15 workers were injured in an attack on the party’s delegation on its way to Delhi to participate in “save Kashmir” rally in New Delhi tomorrow.The statement said the attack was made at Palej station on the Western Railway yesterday by an armed mob of more than four hundred persons.The deceased, Mr Chandrahas Juwatkar, of Kanjur village was the office secretary of the Zopadpatti Janata Parishad.His body was brought to his home today and a funeral procession was taken out in the evening. Over 4,000 people attended the procession, the police said.The BJP statement said the mob attacked the reserved bogies of the Fcrozpur-Dclhi Janata express. Some of the 15 injured were admitted to the civil hospital at Bharuch.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿1 dead, 4 hurt in GujaratThe Times of India (1861-current); May 21, 1985; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1Curfew in Viramgami AHMEDABAD, May 20 (UNI).AN indefinite curfew was clamped over Viramgam town of Ahmedabad district from li a.m. today after one person was stabbed to death and three others seriously injured in a group clash.In Ahmedabad five cases of arson and a number of attacks with sharp Weapons were reported. ;	;Indefinite curfew ; continued for 'the third day today, <in Wadi and the city r police areas of Baroda where sporadic incidents .of.' storting occurred, forcing the police-to lob several teargas shells indifferent areas.In Surat town, 75 anti-reserva-tionists were rounded up by_'the police today. A home guard fired one round in Ahihedabad to disperse two . stone^throwing . groups during the early tours outside the Jamalp.ur gate near the Calico mills after teargas proved ineffective. The mob prevented the -police and home guard personnel from'extinguishing a first which they had set to some huts nearby. Some policemen and'home guard personnel were injured in the stoning.; In the city after: shops' were opened in many areas, arid 174 of the 190 banks functioned. However, clearing operations could not be effected.During the curfew relaxation period, army jawans arrested ten peo-pie from Dariapur,. Kalupur areas and seized an unlicensed Webbley Scott .32 twb calibre loaded .revolver nine knives and razors from them. Five drunk people were also arrested from Dhanasuthar pole area; •One person sustained severe burps in another incident of arson reported from Asarwa, Two godowns of cotton and waste paper were also set on fire. A fire brigade squad could extinguish the fire, only this afternoon. One more waste* paper godown and a , pan-beedi shop were set afire fa Chamanpura. , i ' v The situation in curfew-bound areas like Wadi was under control and women . were allowed to buy es* senlial commodities like milk ana ve* getables under the watchful eye of -the security guards. Ibis concession was. however, withdrawn after some time in Ghadiali Pole fa the wake of heavy brickbatting. v “. ■ -	■MAYORALPOLLSBuses stayed off many routes again.. ^ ^fivate?^de$N^,;se^^m| m some localities. The police ; contfaufed to maintain a ' all. troubled areas - and curfew Was being stricUyHefifprcfedi ; The Mrikin& ;junior ' doctors today , suspended thqir. <52>day*o][d agitation ! temporarily' ip view of tiid disturbed situation. in the City, reports pTI, ’ The doctors were demanding abdli-tion, of the tutor posts introduced recently and refatroduction of’-a four-year rwfaemy .^tefa. itf thehomital.The disturbed situation' in BProda did. not come, in the way.of mayoral election there except that an uproar broke , out at foe election meeting ovgr alleged police atrocity on innocent citizens. The two Congress nominees, Dr. Jatin Modi, and Mr. Noor Mohammed Campwala were elected mayor, and deputy mayor respectively.In Surat about 75 students were arrested today; for staging anti-reservation demonstrations in violation of prohibitory orders.Meanwhile'in Ahmedabad the chief minister, Mr, Madhavsinh Solanki, in an informal chat with newsmen, reiterated that an amicable solution to the demands made by the *Vaii maridal' (parents’ assodation) couldbe brought about through direct negotiations.	.He Was hopeful - of a positive solution of their main demands like phased abolition of 1 fen per cent reservatiohfor the.socially and .econo, mically backward communities and a iudiciai inquiry into the disturbances.In NeW Defat' a national convjem tion for reservation today, orged the Prime Minister, Mr. Rajiv Gandhi, to take the initiative in _ consulting leaders of all political- Parties and Social organisations before > decaring government's policy on reservation, ,Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿REPORTS FROM STATES: SEVEN INJURED IN CLASH SEC. 144 IMPOSED IN TOWNThe Times of India (1861-current); Jun 10, 1960; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 7REPORTS FROM STATESMadhya PradeshSeven Injured In ClashSEC. 144 IMPOSED IN TOWNBHOPAL, June 9: Seven persons, ncluding two police Sub-Inspectors ind three constables, sustained injuries vhen persons forming part of a' pro-:ession threw stones in Vidisha, a iistrict town, yesterday morning, ac-tording to an official report available lere today.The procession was taken, out jointly by local units of the Hindu Maha-;abha, the Jan Sangh and the Ram Rajya Parishad in connection with he long-standing dispute over the Vijaya Mandir—and archaeological monument to which rival claims have been made by Hindus and Muslims For the last many years. The district authorities have been allowing Muslims of the town to offer prayers, in the disputed vicinity on Id Day.. BUILDINGS DAMAGEDThe report said that the procession was taken out to protest against the alleged removal of some idols from the Vijaya Mandir area after Id pray-1 ers op June 5. The processionists reached the Vijaya Mandir area, but dispersed on persuasion by the district authorities. While returning, a section of the processionists is reported tohave thrown stones and damaged some buildings on the way. Seven persons were injured in stone-throwing.Later the police arrested ten persons, including Mr. Niranjan Varma, a former Vice-President of- the Hindu Mahasabha. They were later released on bail.The District Magistrate has promulgated, an order under Section 144. Cr. P.C., banning processions and meetings in the town for a period of 15 days with .effect from June 8. The situation is reported to be under control.—P.T.ll	, ,Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿2 killed in clash near BhopalThe Times of India (J86J-current); Aug 28, 1969; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 12	killed in clash near Bhopal“The Times o£ India'’ News _ ServiceBHOPAL, August 27:	Two	peoplewere killed and seven injured in a clash between two sections of people last night at Ahmedpur, a village about 64 kms. from here, according to official information received here.Official sources said that in the widespread arson that followed four houses were gutted. Among the injured was a police constable. 'Additional police force was rushed from Bhopal and the situation was officially stated to be under control.Clash over land: 7 hurtCALCUTTA, August 27: Seven people were injured in a clash between members of two constituent parties of the United Front at Betai, near here, today.A dispute over the possession of some khas land was reported to have led to the clash in which lethal weapons were freely used..	_The SDO (north) rushed to Betai with a police contingent from here.— U.N.I.Poison-tipped arrows used in clashIMPHAL, August 27: Three people were killed and two seriously injured in a clash between two groups of villagers over disputed lands at a village 37 km. from here on Monday.The villagers used poison-tipped arrows and daggers in the clash.All male members of the village, according to the police, fled the.place following the incident.—P.T.I.The Iraqi Government has- closed seven daily newspapers and weekly magazines, according to the Middle East News Agency.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Police fire on Srinagar mob: 2 dieThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Oct 4, 1967; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Police fireon Srinagar mob: 2 die“The Times of India” News Service ISRINAGAR, October 3. jrPHE police fired on a violent mob here today killing two and injuring one.A curfew was imposed in certain areas of the dty at 8-30 p.m. as it continued to be in the grip of tension. The curfew will be lifted at 1 p.m. tomorrow. Helmeted police mm are patrolling the affected areas. ,All educational institutions in the city have been ordered to be closed for three days.The mob violence was sparked off by rumours of an act of sacrilege which were described as “completely baseless and mischievous” by the authorities.The Chief Minister, Mr. G. M Sadiq, expressed the Government’s determination to maintain peace in die State at all costs. He said the Government would firmly put down lawlessness from whichever quarter it arose.30 POLICE PERSONNEL HURTOver 30 police personnel, including the deputy inspector-general of police, Mr. D. N. Kaul, were injured in stonethrowing. ■Trouble started when a small group of students of a local college tried to, take opt a procession in defiance of prohibitory orders. They were intercepted .and dispensed by the police.But the students along with others, reassembled at Lai Chowk and Bad-shah Ghowk, the main shopping centres. They indulged in stone-throwing and other acts of hooliganism. The windows of several passing vehicles were smashed.The police burst tear-gas shells and resorted to a lathi-charge. When these failed to disperse the crowd, they opened fire near Lial Chowk.Shops were _ hurriedly closed in all areas as the situation became serious.A Government spokesman said the adequate measures had been taken to prevent the recrudescence of violence.He said that ever since the Kashmiri pandits’ agitation, there had been a “chain reaction.’’ Elements hostile to the Government were riving to exploit the situation in the State.They were spreading all kinds of baseless rumours to injure the religious sentiments of the people. TV Government was, however, determined to curb such tendencies.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿STONES THROWN AT POLICEThe Times of India (1861-current); Jan 10, 1953; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1STONES THROWN AT POLICESeven InjuredNear Jammu-------»♦■»-----JAMMU, January 9.Seven police constables were injured when a Praja Parishad procession threw stones at a police party in Budhi village, in Kathua Tehsil, 52 miles from here.The Parishad procession wanted to proceed to the Kathua Panchayats’ Conference, attended by Mirza Mohammed Afzal Beg, the State’s Revenue Minister, and Mr. Girdharilal Dogra, the State’s Finance Minister.The police cordoned the procession at a distance of about half a mile from, the meeting.The processionists then threw stones at the police injuring seven members of the police party.RECOGNITION OFRed chinaLikely Egyptian MoveCAIRO, January 9: Egvot was considering the recognition of Communist China as Dart of her vigorous foreign policy to develop stronger ties with Asian countries, diplomatic sources here said tonight.This step was dictated by both political and economic considerations, the sources added.Besides pursuing a long-term policy of asserting an independent and influential position in international affairs, Egypt’s desire to recognise	CommunistChina is governed by her pressing need to find new markets for her still largely unsold cotton crop.The Egyptian Finance Minister, Dr. Abdel Guelil el Emary, announced recently that an important cotton deal” had been concluded with	CommunistChina.—P.T.I.-Reuter.(See Pane 6)DESTRUCTION of AIRLINER Woman HangedMONTREAL, January 9:	Mrs.Arthur Pitre, 43, was hanged at the Bordeaux jail of Montreal today for her part in the destruction of a Canadian airliner by a timebomb in 1949. She had been sentenced to death for the murder of Mrs. Rita Morel, Guay, one of the 23 persons killed in the airliner on September 9, 1949.Earlier, two men had been executed for killing the pilot which resulted in the destruction of the airliner by a time-bomb while in (light.One wanted to kill his wife, who was aboard the plane, collect10,000	dollars insurance money anil marry a waitress. The other made the bomb.—P.T.I.-Kuuut.The Central Government Is giving a subsidy of three lakhs of rupees to Andhra University, which will be utilised for instituting a professorship in Sanskrit.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Baroda violence claims 9 livesThe Times of India (1861-current); Apr 25, 1991; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Baroda violenceclaimsBARODA, Apr. 24.IN a sudden outbreak of violence, nine persons, including a woman, were killed and 11 were injured in the city police station area here last night, reports PT1.Two persons were killed in police firing and seven in stabbing incidents when violence erupted following a minor incident in which a boy was hit by an autorickshaw.- The police lobbed 148 tear-gas shells and fired 27 rounds to disperse clashing groups of two different communities which indulged in stone throwing and arson in Fatchpura, Hathikhana, Patel Falia and other areas in the Fatchpura police chowky in the city.The police commissioner, Mr M. M. Mehta said the situation was completely under control. The police were patrolling the riot-torn and sensitive areas like Nanapura, Karclibaug and Panigatc, he saidaHriino I S rv>r«nn« hart hcen arresl^H9 livesin this connection.According to a report from Surat, where two persons were killed and ten others injured in a scries of slabbing incidents in the Athwa police station area of the town since Sunday, the curfew relaxation period passed off peacefully today.Six persons have been detained under the National Security Act during the last four days.The police said the situation was peaceful after the imposition of curfew at 11 p.m. last night, which was not relaxed today. The police fired a dozen rounds to drive away rioting mobs, and burst as many tear gas shells.The Gujarat chief minister, Mr C'himanbhai Patel, .today sent the director general of police, Mr B. S. Nirula, to Baroda to make an ascss-ment of the situation in the curfew bound city, the scene of violence late last night.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿STONES THROWN AT POLICEThe Times of India (1861-current); Jan 10, 1953; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1STONES THROWN AT POLICESeven InjuredNear Jammu-------»♦■»-----JAMMU, January 9.Seven police constables were injured when a Praja Parishad procession threw stones at a police party in Budhi village, in Kathua Tehsil, 52 miles from here.The Parishad procession wanted to proceed to the Kathua Panchayats’ Conference, attended by Mirza Mohammed Afzal Beg, the State’s Revenue Minister, and Mr. Girdharilal Dogra, the State’s Finance Minister.The police cordoned the procession at a distance of about half a mile from, the meeting.The processionists then threw stones at the police injuring seven members of the police party.RECOGNITION OFRed chinaLikely Egyptian MoveCAIRO, January 9: Egvot was considering the recognition of Communist China as Dart of her vigorous foreign policy to develop stronger ties with Asian countries, diplomatic sources here said tonight.This step was dictated by both political and economic considerations, the sources added.Besides pursuing a long-term policy of asserting an independent and influential position in international affairs, Egypt’s desire to recognise	CommunistChina is governed by her pressing need to find new markets for her still largely unsold cotton crop.The Egyptian Finance Minister, Dr. Abdel Guelil el Emary, announced recently that an important cotton deal” had been concluded with	CommunistChina.—P.T.I.-Reuter.(See Pane 6)DESTRUCTION of AIRLINER Woman HangedMONTREAL, January 9:	Mrs.Arthur Pitre, 43, was hanged at the Bordeaux jail of Montreal today for her part in the destruction of a Canadian airliner by a timebomb in 1949. She had been sentenced to death for the murder of Mrs. Rita Morel, Guay, one of the 23 persons killed in the airliner on September 9, 1949.Earlier, two men had been executed for killing the pilot which resulted in the destruction of the airliner by a time-bomb while in (light.One wanted to kill his wife, who was aboard the plane, collect10,000	dollars insurance money anil marry a waitress. The other made the bomb.—P.T.I.-Kuuut.The Central Government Is giving a subsidy of three lakhs of rupees to Andhra University, which will be utilised for instituting a professorship in Sanskrit.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿CROWD ATTACKS POLICE PARTY: 25 HELD IN CALCUTTAThe Times of India (J86J-current); Feb 17, 1964; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1CROWD ATTACKS POLICE PARTY 25 Held In CalcuttaCALCUTTA, February 16: Twenty-five persons were arrested in the Benia-pukur area of central Calcutta this evening following a clash between a large crowd and a police party that had gone there to arrest two persons under the Defence of India Rules. JAfter the police had talen 'into custody Mr. Mohd. Salauddin (junior), a municipal councillor, a large crowd surrounded the police party and attacked it with stones and other weapons. The driver of the police van and a constable were seriously injured. The police party immediately left the scene with Mr. Salauddin in custody.	.Later, a strong police force was sent to the spot and it rounded up 25 persons on charges of rioting. The police also took into custody .another Muslim leader, Mr. Mohammed Salauddin, chief administrative officer of the Anjuman-Mufidul-lslam, under the Defence of India Rules.The police also served externment orders today on Maulana Waseem Ahmad, a Badauni maulvi, under the Defence of India Rules. The maulana left by train from Howrah but the police could not give his destination.The police reported two other incidents today—one in the Park Street area and another in Sealdah—in which two persons sustained bullet injuries and were admitted to hospital.In the Park Street area, following a cracker explosion in a burial ground, there was some commotion in which the rifle of a police constable is believed to have accidentally gone off resulting in a shopkeeper being injured.In the Sealdah incident, a police constable was injured by a bullet, but police officials were unable .to throw any light on it.—P.T.I.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿CLASH LEADS TO CURFEWThe Times of India (J86J-current); Apr 18, 1962; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1CLASH LEADS TO CURFEWArson & Looting In MaldaMALDA (WEST BENGAL), April 17: A dusk-to-dawn curfew has been imposed on Malda town for three days, following a clash between two groups of people last night. 'There were several eases of arson and some shops were looted, but there were no casualties. Police patrolling continues and the situation is now officially stated to be under control.A high police officer arrived here from Calcutta today to hold an on-the-spot inquiry.—P.T.I.KING MAHENDRA ARRIVES TODAY 5-Day Visit To Capital“The Times of India” News ServiceNEW DELHI, April 17: King Ma- ■ hendra of Nepal will be accorded a State reception when he arrives tomorrow afternoon at the I.A.F. Station, Palam, on a five-day visit to the capital for talks with'Mr. Nehru , on Indo* Nepalese relations.	.He will be accompanied by : the Queen of Nepal. Besides senior offi-cialSj the King’s- party includes Dr. Tulsi Giri, Foreign Minister.Mr. Nehrp today spent some time discussing the Nepal situation with the Indian Ambassador in Kathmandu, Mr. Harishwar Dayal, and other senior officials of the External Affairs Ministry.King Mahendra’s programme tomor* • row includes a meeting with Mr. Nehru at Rashtrapati'Bhavan and a banquet ' in his and the Queen’s honour by the President, Dr. Rajendra Prasad.See Page 7The Industrial Arbitration Court of Singapore has awarded 22 local employees of the Life Insurance Corporation of India an annual bonus of oiie-and-a-half month’s salary on a better pay scale, and dearness and personal allowances hitherto given have been incorporated in the salary.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿One killed in Bengal group clashThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jun 30, 1993; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 17One killed in Bengal group clashThe Times of India News ServiceCALCUTTA, June 29: One person died in a clash between two communities at Sonarpur in South 24 Parganas district here today.A group of Muharram processionists were travelling on the local train from Naihati, when the incident occurred at Sonarpur railway station.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿406 preventive arrests in cityThe Times of India (J86J-current); Nov 10, 1981; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 9406 preventivearrests in cityBy A Staff ReporterBOMBAY, Novemeber 9: The police today arrested 406 people in differem parts of the city as a precautionarj measure following the disturbance oi peace in various localities in the-pasl few days.	,In the firing by the police to quel! the riot near the Mahatma Phule market area on Sunday morning, five people were injured. Their names were given as Mumtaz Abubakar (18) Anjuria Mumtaz Ahmed (45), Iqbal (12), Iqbal (21) and Mohammed Yasir (30).The services of both the state reserve and city police were enlisted today to maintain calm in the Musafirkhana area where aerated water bottles and brick-bats were hurled about.Meanwhile, according to a communication from the commissioner’s office, a meeting was held between the commissioner, Mr.' K. P. Medhekar and a delegation, including Mr, Wamanrao Mahadik, municipal corporator, Dr. Ishaq Jamkhanawala, Mr, G. M. Banatwalla, M-P-, Mr. Pramod Navalkar, M.L.C., Mr. Mohammed Hussain Patel and Mr. Yacob Merchant. The situation was reviewed and the police commissioner gave an assurance that suitable action would be taken. Mr. Medhekar also appealed to the public to co-operate with the police in maintaining peace.2 killed in firing on tazia processionistsPATNA, November. 9 (PTI) : Twc persons were killed and at least 12 others injured when the police opened fire to quell a section of tazia processionists indulging in violence at Bahdurganj in Purnea district yesterday, according to official rePorts.	^	.In another incident in Dadda village in West Champaran district yesterday, the police fired a few rounds to disperse clashing groups during a tazia procession, the home commissioner, Bihar government, Mr. R. N. Dash, told PTI here today,23 feared dead as dam burstsMIDNAPORE, November 9 (PTI): At least 23 people including 18 women were feared dead when an earthen dam on tile river Tarafeni under the Bin-pur police station collapsed on Saturday last,Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿POLICE FIRE IN TWO CITY LOCALITIES: POST-POLL CLASHESA Staff ReporterThe Times of India (1861-current); Mar 28, 1968; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of Indiapg. 1Rv A Staff RennrterIPHE police fired several rounds and burst tear-gas shells ii A two different parts of Bombay on Wednesday to disperse Mov/ds.	/E. S. Modak, has extended the ban on,The localities affected were Madanpura in central’ Bombay and the thickly-populated Dha-ravi in the north.In both the areas; the trouble was an off-shoot of the municipal election with followers of the winning and , the losing candidates clashing.	/One person died and two were injured in the police firing at. Madanpura. The firing in Dharavi was in the air and no one was hurt.But in the clashes at both the places, several people, including some policemen, . were injured* Four constables , were .stabbed by a group of rioters id . Dharavi. and an emergency operation had to be performed on one policeman in the Sion Hospital.	'In the Madanpura: incident;,' a drjv-cr of a police officer and 12 constables wore injured as a result df stonethrowing.	;TENSION-FILLED DAYTension prevailed id both' the areas; throughout Wednesday. .	■ ,At Dharavi, many families abandoned their huts and houses to* places of safety outside the area. Though the police kept a bando-bust at Dharavi, there were intermittent clashes among groups of people The job of policemen became .difficult as the approach to the area from; the Dharavi-Sion' road was barricaded by a crowd armed with iron bars,, knives and bottles.	,■the Deputy Commissioner, Mr.. Rajnamurthi, ordered firing to disperse a violent crowd which sooni directed its attack against the posse: of police, rushed to quell the riots.The number of arrests exceeded! 450, including 200 in Dharavi.The Commissioner of Police, Mr..the assembly of five or more people throughout Greater Bombay up to Friday midnight.	_There were two versions of the incidents at Dharavi. One said the trouble between two rival groups arose as a result of the mysterious fire that engulfed some huts and godowns in the area on Tuesday. One group attacked the other on the assumption that the fire was started by that group.TWO VERSIONSThe other version _said the clash was a sequel to the victory, procession taken out by the supporters of the winning Congress candidate. .The police had to be on the defensive for some time as a 1,000-strong crowd, armed .with lethal weapons, was on a rampage, Attacking houses, shops and people in the area. .Mr. Ramamurtlii and some policemen were 'surrounded :,-by>^a ■ rioting crowd. It was only after1 revolver shots were fired in the air that the crowd dispersed. Tear-gasshell were burst in another. area to bring the situation under control.The rioting ended by 3.30 p.m.. according to the police. But tension prevailed throughout the night. A number of policemen were posted in Dharavi and surrounding areas.In the Madanpura incident, the rioting began between supporters of tne winning Congress candidate and the Muslim League candidate. When the result of the election was known, Congressmen took out a procession. The supporters of the Muslim League candidate followed suit. ' The two processions came, face to face on Maulana Azad Road where sloganshouting ended and a fight ensued in which stones and soda water bot-•les were freely used.When the police arrived, they found the road barricaded with handcarts and charpoys. With, the 'situation worsening, they burst tear-gas shells and later resorted to firing. :Stray incidents \of rioting were also reported from Shivajii Park, . Dadar railway station and Kamathipura.In a number of areas of central Bombay, tension prevailed'throughout Wednesday.The chief presidency magistrate, Mr. V. M. Gehani». will conduct an immediate inquiry into the Madan-Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Bihar town under curfew: clashesThe Times of India (1861-current); Apr 16, 1970; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Bihar town under curfew: clashesPATNA, April 15: Two people were killed and 20 olhers injured today when six bombs were hurled at a religious procession in Baribazar, Chai-basa, according to official reports reaching here.The violent' processionists were reported to have set fire to about 30 huts belonging to another community.A dusk-to-daw n curlew w as imposed following several cases of arson and looting. The disttiet authorities also promulgated prohibitory orders under section 144 Cr. P.C.Intensive police patrolling was continuing in the town. Additional police had been rushed from the neighbouring districts.Sixteen people have been arrested.The Divisional Commissioner of Ranchi and the Deputy Inspector-General of Police. Southern Zone, would arrive in Chaibasa tomorrow.A spokesman at the State headquarters described the situation as fully under control.—U.N.I.The Iwar in Gangtok is flooded with smuggled Chinese goods like pens, read)-made garments and utensils brought mostly from Rhadarpur near Galgaha in West Bengal.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Belgaum clash claims 4The Times of India (J86J-current); Apr 9, 1992; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 8Belgaum clash claims 4BELGAUM, Apr 8 (PTlJ: The 12-hour curfew clamped in the riot torn Belgaum from 7 p.m, yesterday has been extended till 5 a.m. tomorrow with the death toll in the violent incidents in the city rising to four following the death of one more person last night.Police said that incidents of arson, looting and stabbing were reported in the city today also.The violent incidents were a sequel to an incident in the city in which a person was stabbed to death on Sunday last. Two persons were killed and several injured when miscreants belonging to a particular community indulged in violence and looting on Monday.The director general of police, Mr FT R Colasso, today visited the trouble torn areas in the city and held discussions with district police officials. Additional police reinforcements had been requisitioned from Dharwad and Bijapur, the police said and added that the situation in the city this evening was tense but under control.FB eases stand on Tin BighaCALCUTTA, April 8. Faced with the rebellion of the party MLA, Mr Kamal Guha, on the one hand and the pressure from the CPM to agree to the leasing out of the Tin Bigha corridor to Bangladesh on the other, the West Bengal unit of the Forward Bloc has softened its stand on the issue.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Four die in Delhi riotsThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); May 17, 1992; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1The Times of India News Service NEW DELHI, May 16,CURFEW was clamped in old Seelampur early this morning after communal riots last night left at least four dead and 77, including 17 policemen, hurt. The Border Security Force staged a flag march in the area this morning.Prohibitory orders have been imposed for ten days on the adjoining areas, covered by the Krishna Nagar, Gandhi Nagar, Seelampur and Welcome police stations. Patrolling has been stepped up in other sensitive areas of the city.Last night's violence, possibly sparked by a dispute over a shop, escalated into a battle, with heavy brickbatting and firing from a large section of the 1,000-strong crowd. An outnumbered policeforce was kept at bay initially as snipers took positions on roofs.As a section of the mob resorted to arson, burning shops and a factory, fire tenders had a problem getting in. It was well past midnight before the situation was controlled and 3 a.m. before the house-to-house combing was over.Curfew was imposed an hour later and nearly 700 policemen and two BSF companies sent into the area. By this morning, at least 85 people, including a retired police head constable and members of his family, had been arrested.At the end of the rioting, four, all men, lay dead. Some 60 people and 17 policemen, including an additional deputy commissioner, wefe hurt. Two policemen had gunshot wounds. By afternoon,half a dozen were still hospitalised.Last evening, there was a meeting of local residents, attended by some area political leaders, to discuss the rape of a six-year-old girl of one community by a youth from another on Thursday. Some distance away, on the main road, there was a dispute over a shop, Jai Bajrang Bali street comer. An elderly woman, owner of the premises, wanted to evict her tenants.This dispute is said to have led to a fight last night. It escalated into a full-scale riot by 10 p.m. The policemen at a picket near the spot tried to contain the situation and reinforcements were gradually brought in, with one contingent being led from the G.T. Road railway crossing side, another coming from the opposite, East Azad Nagar side.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿12 Injured In Delhi Clash: PROTEST AGAINST JAMMU ARREST The Times of India News SThe Times of India (J86J-current); May 13, 1953; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 112 Injured In Delhi ClashPROTEST AGAINST JAMMU ARREST“The Times of India” News ServiceNEW DELHI, May 12. Twelve persons, including four constables, were injured today in a clash between the police and pro-Jammu Praja Parishad demonstrators, observing “protest day” against the arrest of Dr. Svama Prasad Mookerjee, the Jan Sangli leader, in Jammu yesterday.The police took into custody 89 persons, including 14 women, after nearly an hour's scuffle, with the demonstrators.The clash followed a public meeting in the city at which, Mr. V. P. Joshi, General Secretary of the Delhi State Jan Sangh, announced his decision to lead a procession to protest against the arrest of Dr. Mookerjee.Mr. Joshi was joined by workers of the Jan Sangh, the Hindu Mahasabha and the Ram Rajya Parishad, whom the police cordoned off.A lathi charge followed the demonstrators’ attempts to break through the cordon. As women volunteers threw a cordon round Mr. Joshi, women constables had to be called to disperse them. Thereafter, Mr. Joshi was bodily lifted by two constables and carried to the police van, .A meeting held earlier was addressed by Mr. N. C. Chatter-jee, M.P., President of the All-India Hindu Mahasabha, Mr. V. G. Deshpande, M.P., General Secretary, All-India Hindu Mahasabha, Mr. Nana Lai Shastry, M.P., (Ram Rajya Parishad) and Mr. V. P. Joshi.The meeting passed a resolution criticising the Kashmir Government for arresting Dr. Mookerjee.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Subsidy on groundnut oil salesThe Times of India (J86J-current); Apr 7, 1970; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Subsidy on groundnut oil sales“The Times of India*1 News ServiceAHMEDABAD. April 6.^HE Gujarat Government has decided to Subsidise the sale of groundnut oil through fair-price shops in response to mounting pressure from consumers and leaders of various political parties.Families in the low-income groups will now get 400 grammes ot groundnut oil per head every month at Rs. 3.75 per kg.	'This decision was announced by the State Civil Supplies Minister, Mr. Babubhai Patel, here today. It followed a flurry of activity and several meetings between political leaders and the Minister. The Finance Minister, Mr. Jashvant Mehta, and the Deputy Civil Supplies Minister, Mr. Jayram-bhai Patel, were also present.MLA breaks fast“The Times of India*’ News ServiceAHMEDABAD. April 6:	Mr.yiurf.ind Shasm. PSP Ml.A, broke his indefinite fast on the seventh day here * today following the State Government's plan to distribute groundnut oil at subsidised rates to the poorer sections of society.Mr. Shasivi. along with two other PSP leaders. Mr. Morlidhar Ranalkar and Mr. Babubhai Amin, had undertaken a fast-unto-death at Baroda and Halol, demanding the distribution of 500 grammes of groundnut oil at Rs. 3.50 per kg.Barodu: Following the settlement of the issue regarding the distribution of groundnut oil at economic prices the joint party agitation initiated by the PSP was called off tonight.Gherao by girl studentsVARANASI, April 6: Girl students of the Kashi Vidyapeeth yesterday gberaoed their vice-chancellor, Mr. Raja Ram Shastri. for over an hour. The girls were demanding the removal of the warden of the women's hostel whom they accused of taking indiscriminate disciplinary action against certain inmates of the hostel. 1 The gherao was lifted on the arrival of the police.—P.T.l.Tear-gas used on Indore mob“The Times of India*’ News ServiceINDORE. April.6: The police burst tear-gas shells to disperse two rival groups as they were about to clash here today.The mobs indulged in stone-throwing. They also attempted to set fire to a house.Seven persons were trtjured and 23 arrested.Adjournment bid failsThe Maharashtra Assembly rejected on Monday an Opposition adjournment motion at the end of a 90-minute discussion on the “wanton lathi-charge by the police on the peasants in Bhir protesting against the levy ot cess hy the Taluka Punchnyat Samili hast Saturday.- Tiie adjournment motion, tabled bv Mr. S. D. Moie (PSP-DF) and Mr. G. B. Gaaacha-ya and Mr. N. V. I'gu'e (fori) C'Pl-Sjin). was supported by 25 and opposed by 61 members.Opposing the moPion. the Chief Minister. Mr. V. P. Naik said that as c’ecnonstiators tried to break the police cordon after throwing stones at the police, the taluka magistrate ordered a mild cane-charge.During lire debaie. Opposition members demanded a judicial inquiry into the incident. Inis w.ts, however, not granted by the Government.Details on Page 6Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Jullundur Lathi-ChargeThe Times of India (1861-current); Aug 29, 1960; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 7Jullundiir Lathi-ChargeJULLUNDUR, August 28:	Thepolice resorted to a lathi-charge here this evening to disperse <an unruly crowd of spectators when it set fire to the furniture in the grounds of ‘a local high school where a wrestling bout between a Pakistani and an Indian had been arranged. The police took into custody about a dozen .persons on charges of arson.—P.T.I.Raj Bhavan NewsBOMBAY, August 28: The Gov-emor has arrived from Poona.AHMED AB AD. August 28: In the morning the Governor inaugurated the Rotary Institute District 305 atthe Rotary hall, Khanpuy.' • . . • 1 * » • ■The Governor reoeived Yuvaraj Sa-heb Digvijaysinji of Wankaner. 'Shri M. B. Rana, Speaker of .the Gujarat Assembly, and Smt. Raisa, and Dr. Bhaskarbhai Patel, Deputy Minister of Maharashtra, came tolunch.	^Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Rioting crowd fired on in BarodaThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Feb 6, 1971; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 1Rioting crowd in Barodafiredon“The Times of India” News ServiceBARODA, February 5. police fired three roundsTheand burst tear-gas shells and resorted to repeated lathi-charges today to disperse frenzied mobs indulging in arson and loot of private property in four areas ofThe trouble was sparked oft when groups of students dashed with a section of people oil tile road after demonstrating in protest against 'he blowing up of the hijacked Indian Airlines plane. There was stone throwing and anti-social elements resorted to arson and loot. The police-rutiled to the scene and restored 'order 'within an hour.The police said 25 people had been.arrested, most of them red-handed. More arrests are expected tonight.By evening, the district authoritv clamped Section 144 for four days throughout the city. This ban oil meetings _ and processions will affect the election campaign.The district collector has convened a meeting of the Citizens Peace Committee. The Mayor. Mr. Thakorebhai Patel, and the Health Minister. Mr. Fatchsinhrao Gaekwad. have issued a joint appeal for peace in the city.F-FUCIKS BURNT-eSfUtteijr^Ttntdcrs also. ' appealed to students to help restore peace. In a statement they demanded prompt action by tile police against tile miscreants.Most faculties of M.S. University .were closed for' the day. 'as students stayed away from their classes m response to an appeal by the students' union.The students took out a procession carrying effigies of the Pakistan President, Gen. Yahva Khan, the former Pakistan Foreign Minister, Mr. Zulfi-qar Ali Bhutto, and of a Pakistani plane. At a meeting earlier, they condemned the hijacking and burning down of the plane and demandedstern action against the Pakistani Government.Carrying the effigies and the placards denouncing Pakistan, the procession passed through tile main thoroughfares of the city forcing the shops to pull down shutters. Later it emerged into a gathering at Mandvi, where it made a bonfire of the effigies amidst shouting of anti-Pakistan slogans. .Later as the students were dispersing, there were many incidents ol slone-throwing. Hie police used batons to push back some sections of the crowd.In the general melee that ensued anti-social elements broke into some shops, which led to reprisals in other areas.	.Some shops in Ghandiali Pole were also looted and. lwo cloth shops aL Mangdl Bazaar set on fire.Other reactions Page 12One killed firingin■BARODA, February 5: One person was killed when the police opened fire late tonight in the Wadi area of the city to control a clash between two groups.The police, who rushed to the spot, brought the situation under control within a few minutes.According to official sources, the police first hurst tear-gas shells to disperse the mob gathered near a restaurant in the area. As the mob did not disperse, the police opened hre after warning the people.— U.N.l.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.Congress leader * ends fastC^lbllinucd from Pago 1 Column 6—which is a record number in Delhi. At one stage, the police ran short of tear-gas shells and these had to be rushed immediately to control the mob.The students raised slogans demanding compensation from Pakistan for the destroyed aircraft. They also demanded that the Government sever diplomatic relations with Pakistan i£ it failed to pay compensation. •Tension mounted as rumours spread that the Indian High Commission in Islamabad had been ransacked by Pakistani demonstrators. The demonstrators became unruly and started throwing stones at the High Commission.The deputy commissioner, Mr. G. K. Arora, declared the - assembly un-lawul but the demonstrators continued to throw stones.The order for firing tear-gas shells infuriated the students further and they made the police the target for their brickbats.Finding the crowd not amenable to reason, Mr. Arora, announced that if the students did not leave the spot at once the police would - be ordered to fire.This provoked some students to bare their chest in a gesture of defiance. The police then fired in the air but this did not have the desired effect The students only fell back some distance and jeered at the policemen.CAR DAMAGEDA regular confrontation developed between the police and the students. The students stopped shouting anti-Pakistan slogans and shouted antipolice slogans.At one stage two local Congress (R) leaders came to the chancery but they left when the students started raining stones on the police. Their car was damaged by brickbats.Among 'the groups which demonstrated outside the High Commission •were 500 Muslims from Jama Masjid who put up a placard outside the chancery expressing their indignation over the hijacking.Mir Mushtaq Ahmed, a Congress leader, broke his 48-hour fast today at 2 p.m. The Mir had gone on fast outside the residence of the High Commissioner for Pakistan on Tilak Marg in protest against the hijacking.Mrs. Sumitra Pandit, Mrs. Pushpa Gupta and Miss Swaran Kanta, all Congress workers, went on 24-hour dharna-cum-fast outside the residence of the Pakistani High Commissioner.t	•‘Plot to undermine Indo-Pak ties’MOSCOW, February 5: The Lahore airport incident • was reported here yesterday for the first time by “Tass.”The news xvas given out through a summary of the Indian Communist Party’s statement denouncing it as “part of a conspiracy to undermine Indo-Pakistani relations” and an act aimed at progressive and secular forces in both the countries.	~The Soviet Union had in the past criticised the hijacking of passenger planes for whatever motive and had gone on record castigating Palestinian guerillas for employing it as a political weapon. In the two attempted cases of hijacking recently, Soviet citizens were awarded the severest punishment.However, caution in the reporting and commenting on the latest hijacking incident involving the Indian plane was attributed in informed circles to a Soviet defire to keep clear of the sensitive areas of Indo-Pakistani relations.—P.T.I.Lathi-charge on studentsNEW DELHI, February 5:	ThePakistani police resorted to a mild lathi-charge to disperse a crowd of demonstrators in front of the Indian High Commission in Islamabad, Radio Pakistan reported tonight.The demonstrators, whom the radio described as local Kashmiris, tried to force their entry into the High Commission building, but a heavy police prevented it.—U.N.I.AFP adds; Two students and two policemen were injured in the demonstrations.	-Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿DISTURBANCES IN CHANDAUSI: FIVE DEAD: 19 INJUREDThe Times of India (J86J-current); Oct 6, 1961; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1DISTURBANCES IN CHANDAUSI Five Dead: 19 IniuredMORADABAD, October 5:	Fivepersons were killed and 19 others in' jured in communal disturbances ye^ terday at Chandausi, a township If miles from Moradabad. Several houses and shops were reported to have beer looted and burnt.	1 ■A 24-hour curfew was imposed and prohibitory order under Section 144 Cr.P.C. promulgated.Latest reports said the situation was under control.A press note issued by Mr. S. V,S.	Juneja, District Magistrate, on his return from Chandausi this morning, said, “about 1,000 local students, incited by the students returning from Aligarh, took out a procession as a protest against the Aligarh incident about 10 yesterday morning.While passing through the streets, the procession was showered with brick-bats. This enraged the local populace and, about noon, anti-social elements took over and started indiscriminate looting and burning. A large police force, accompanied by the Sub-Divisional Magistrate and the Deputy Superintendent of Police, was despatched and the District Magistrate and the Superintendent of Police rushed afterwards with more reinforcements and order was res-;ored. A 24-hour curfew was imposed, and it will be renewed if necessary.The District Magistrate said that the situation at Chandausi was under control and more Provincial Armed Constabulary and police were being rushed to the place. Patrolling of the township had been ordered.—P.T.I.Meerut: Brick-bats were thrown it a silent procession of students of he local schools and colleges taken jut here today in protest against the listurbances in Aligarh on Tuesday, some students received minor in-uries. One of them was however, idmitted to hospital.—P.T.I > .Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Ghaziabad violence claims 1The Times of India (J86J-current); Jun 29, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 20Ghaziabad violenceclaims 1GHAZIABAD, June 28(PTI):One person: was killed and six were injured following clashes in the main market of the city yesterday evening.Tension prevailed in the city today ard heavy PAC force and security fo rces have been deployed in the area near the bus stand. .The police had cordoned off the aria after the clash in which 20 shops were gutted and a Maruti vehicle set afire.^ JWhile the killed was identified as hammed, the injured had been pitalised, the police said.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Makwana hopes to end Gujarat strifeThe Times of India News ServiceThe Times of India (1861-current); Jul 11, 1985; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 19 The Ttn*&-jof Ifoclli'«ANnhlNAGAR. Julv 10.fTHEl UnioL minister of sjate for 1' health; I Mr. Yogendra Makwana, who has, been, sent; here by r the Prime Minister, to help the new v chief minister, Mr. Amarsinh Chaudhary, in restoring ' normalcy in the riot-tom state, has v begun ' his conciliatory mission on an . optimistic note.	...„Talking to jnewsmen after an hour*'•	■'-Kink;‘‘meeting with the chief mini-f ster, Mr. Makwhua* said his missionwas two-fold: to persuade the anti. reservatiornists , to;,settle the vexed reservation issue' across the table and ■; to detu.se: the communal tension, ,: , . Now (hat the people’s demand for ' t change in jdte leadership had be«| conceded, there should be no gap ; between the ) Stands taken 'by the government and (hi? agitators on the . reservation fasue.••	''	■ , T•	The agitatdrs . had' demanded; the withdrawal of the enhanced 18 per; cent reservation auoto a?d tJie ®°Vr . ernmenthad announced its postpone* ■ ment till a uational oonsensus was evolved., This was virtually saying the7«amej thing in different words, Mr. Makwana, slid.	-Mrl'Makwana did not agree with the suggestion that the former chief minister, Mr. Solanki, was running the. government by proxy. He said many] new faces had been inducted Into the ministry., and the administrative : shake-up effected yesterday also showed that this was a different government. r'N'	.v He was confident that the dissi-, dent; leaders, particularly .*Mn Jina-bhai Darjij and Mr. Sanat Mehta, iWould co-operate with the new chief minister. “After all,' the differences between them are not deep-rooted .fend will be ironed out in due coursi, he opined.Mr. Makwana said he had already* met ,i ome of the opposition leaders, Including Mr. Chiman Patel, as also the leaders of the agitation and striking government employees. He would meet many more in his attempt to bring them to the negotiating-table.t He said! he had also met some . journalists (to try to normalise the relations between the government and ■the press., He claimed that the jour, halists had assured him of their cooperation in restoring normalcy.; MORE SCHOOLS OPEN; Stray violence (UNI from Ahmeda-bad):[ One I person was stabbed in. Baroda last night while five were Injured during a clash between two groups, of [people at Madhavkampa village in Northern Sabarkantha district today.1 Meanwhile, more schools re-.opened in the state on the third day of the new academic term, official reports said, ■Thp police recovered 11 firearms ’in porbandar and Mangrol towns , of Junagadh' district. Twenty-three people j were arrested,I In Mahindarpura area in Surat, die < lolice lobbed 14 teargas sheila : 'to d sperse stoning mobs last night.; ; A government spokesman said that more schools had reopened today all over the state,, with attendance at 55 per cent.The indefinite stnke by the government employees : demanding the abolition of roster system today entered the 34th day. A spokesman foi the employees’ federation today warned tne government that, in the absence of af “positive stand” during the talks with employees on Friday, the federation would be_ forced to convert their agitation into a mass movement.	...i Teachers of government schools also joined the strike today, a spokesman I for the Class III employees of ! government schools said in a statement]	. !	.Thp staff of the Gujarat state road transport corporation in Surat division went on a strike following the death of a bus driver who was m--jured in stone-pelting in Mamndhar-pura area of 4he city on July 2*•	''f ‘	■ .' ■ *Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Pune SacrilegeThe Times of India (J86J-current); May 10, 1988; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 8Pune SacrilegeSir,—rue recent desecration ot atemple idol in Pune has rightlyagitated the minds of not only Hindus but of Mulims also. Muslim League leaders and other prominent Muslims have promptly condemned this meaningless act of vandalism and the subsequent acts of violence against the minority community.There is an impression among non-Muslims that since Islam is opposed to idol worship, it encourages the desecration of idols of other religions and that Muslims regard this as an act of virtue, or at least a laudable act. Nothing is farther from truth.There are clear instructions in the holy Quran concerning such acts, as in the following verse: “Revile not those whom they invoke besides Allah, lest they spitefully revile Allah in their ignorance” (6-108).When Muslims are forbidden to use improper language against the gods of other religions, the desecration of these deities by Muslims is out of the question.A. KARIM SHAIKBombay.Temple Entry’Sir, — As reported in your columns (April 29/30), the President was denied entry into the sanctum sanctorum at Nataraja Temple, Chidambaram.An incident of this nature, involving the first citizen of the country, makes sad reading. But should we not attribute this to lack of homework on the part of those who planned this visit for him? Customs prevailing in south Indian temples ought to be known to them. If a particular custom prevails, is it not necessary for the staff to ask the priests to waive it, as they did for Pandit Nehru, or advise the President, who is himself a south Indian, to observe the local tradition? Lapses in homework can cause serious embarrassment.N. L. N. RAOBombay.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿1 killed in Meerut group clashThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 23, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1Provoked by the incident, about 300 rampaging pro-reservation ists set fire to tractors, cars and scooters. They later went round the bazars, forcing the closure of shops by breaking window panes and sign boards.In Kota, the police said five students of the autonomous college, led by the Union president, Mr Prahlad Gunjal, attempted to commit selfimmolation near the collectorate, while six students of the same college tried to jump into a pyre lit near the college. But the police intervened and► Forum to back Mandal mooted, Page 8took the 11 into custody before they could jump into the fire.Another self-immolation bid by at least two students was reported from Gumanpura area of the city.Sporadic incidents of violence, arson and attack on railway property were reported during a dawn-to-dusk bandh sponsored by the anti-reser-vationists in Bihar. The bandh evoked a mixed response.The home commissioner, Mr J.L. Arya, said in Patna that anti-reser-vationists tried to set ablaze a railway station in Munger district but timely police intervention saved the situation.Anti-reservationists exploded bombs at the Fraser Road roundabout and at an auto-rickshaw stand near the Gandhi Maidan in Patna.Markets and business establishments remained closed in most parts of the town and traffic was thin. The government offices, however, functioned normally.The district administration, however, claimed that the bandh called by the Bihar Rajya Mandal commission Virodhi Morcha, evoked a “poor response.”At Amritsar, the police lathi-charged students, blocking traffic at the Bhandari bridge, when they started throwing stones.A bus and a scooter were burnt arid two buses damaged in Patiala. All shops and commercial establishments were closed in the town.Anti-reservationists forced closure of all bazars and banks at Sangrur. Processions against the Mandal commission recommendations were taken out at Jalandhar and Bhatinda.No untoward incident was. reported in Chandigarh where the army, called out yesterday following violence, strictly enforced the curfew restrictions.Residents in the city did not get their morning newspapers, and supply of milk and vegetables remained suspended.Meanwhile, the Chandigarh Bharatiya Janata Party general secretary, Mr Satpal Jain, condemned the administration’s decision to impose curfew and call out the army and(Continued on Page 11)group clashMEERUT, September 22 (UNI): One youth was killed and about 25 injured in police firing and group clashes during the taking out of a procession in Gudhri Bazar here last night.	_t he police opened fire to queii violence sparked off by stones-throw-ing on the procession, one person died in the firing. Three of the injured mostly in clashes, were in a critical condition, the police said.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.Student immolates selfContinued from Page 1demanded the release of all the students taken into custody by the police yesterday.Anti-reservationists blocked rail and road traffic in several parts of Delhi.Movement of trains from Delhi to Haryana was disrupted as students and local residents deflated tyres of about six Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) buses and parked them on the tracks at a railway crossing, at Bijwasan near Palam airport in South Delhi.The demonstrators also stoned and damaged the buses, the police said.A Delhi-bound train from Farukhnagar in Haryana and a Bhatinda-bound train from the capital were detained by the mob at the crossing for several hours, the police said.Students hurled stones at a state roadways bus and took out a mock funeral procession of reservation in Raipur in Madhya Pradesh.In Bilaspur, Himachal Pradesh, traffic was blocked for four hours. Anti-reservationists blocked the Simla-Bilaspur state highway for more than two hours at Shalaghat.At Fatehabad in Hisar district, a tehsildar’s jeep and a telephone exchange were set on fire by anti-reservationists last night when word spread that the Delhi college student, Rajiv Goswami, who had attempted self-immolation, had died. A big procession was taken out in the town this morning by the anti-reservationists.At the busy Safdarjung and III crossings in South Delhi, the police diverted traffic along other routes. Hundreds of students had started collecting at the Safdaijung crossingnear the Safdarjung hospital where Goswami was admitted with serious bums.	,Doctors attending on Goswami said his condition continued to be “critical but stable.” Commenting on reports that the student might be flown abroad for treatment, hospital sources said this might not be “immediately practicable,” given his present condition.A bums expert, Prof M.H. Kcshwani, has been flown in from Bombay to assist in the treatment of1 Goswami.Authorities of the Safdaijung hospital, where he is being treated, said the government has also decided to bring in an expert from the United States for the purpose.Meanwhile, the condition of1 Goswami, who was shifted to a separate cubicle in the bums department of the hospital, today remained “Critical but stable with supportive measures,” the hospital medical bulletin said.The bulletin said he would remain in a critical condition for another two-three weeks till the burnt skin is removed and replaced by skin grafts and the bum area reduced by at least 50 per cent.The student-protestors erected barbed wire fences and put up road blocks last night on the arterial roads of the crossing, which they rechris-lained “Qurbani Chowk.”A heavy police posse, which did not take any action on the agitating students yesterday, had taken up positions on the ring road and the Aurobindo Marg.The doctors said Goswami’s case was complicated and his lungs were badly affected. He had inhaled a lot of smoke during the ten-minutes orCso he was in flames.The fact that Goswami was on hunger strike for nine days before his self-immolation bid had created further complications for the doctors as they had to fight malnourishment as well.Doctors said Goswami was convinced that his self-immolation bid against the implementation of the Mandal commission report was justified. Doctors quoted him as saying he had “no regrets” even if he was to sacrifice his life.The police fired in the air and made a lathi-charge to disperse a mob of anti-reservationists who set fire to a post office, a branch of the land mortgage bank and a bus at Nara-ingarh in Ambala district today.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿20 injured in Srinagar riotsThe Times of India (J86J-current); Aug 18, 1988; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 920 injured in Srinagar riotsSRINAGAR, August 17 (PTI): A least 20 persons, including1 somi -policemen, received injuries in clashe between pro-Pakistan demonstrator ‘and the police in parts of downtowi -city for the third successive day hen today.- The clashes occurred at Rajorikada and Bohrikadal, and spread t<Fatehkadal, Khanyar Chowk, Khayan Chowk and Maisuma localities, witl -the police lobbing tear-gas shells ant making lathi-charge, and the demon strators retaliating by throwing stones ^ Several passing vehicles were dam aged by the mob, bringing the traffic ti 'H halt.r‘ Fifteen miscreants had been arrestei on charges of rioting and assault oi 'public servants, the police said.\ Meanwhile, Mirwaiz Maulv farooq, chairman of the Awami actioi committee, who has been charged b; the government with inciting violeno jib the downtown localities, claimet that one Mushtaq Ahmad, who hat received bullet injuries in the polio firing yesterday, had succumbed to hi injuries last night.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Seven die in Bengal clashThe Times of India (J86J-current); Sep 8, 1987; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 14Seven die inBengali clashCALCUTTA, September 7 (PTI): At least seven persons were killed and 16 others injured, two seriously, when the police fired 22 rounds ito disperse two warring groups at Kamalpur village in West Bengal’s Malda district yesterday.The rival groups, which clashed over taking out a religious procession, indulged in heavy, brickbatting, resulting in injuries to 17 police personnel, including two officers, according to a delayed report reaching here today.Prohibitory orders under section 144 Cr. P.C. have been promulgated in the village. Thirty arrests were made.Meanwhile, the situation in the city’s. Garden Reach area, the scene of Saturday’s police firing following a row over,a Muharram procession, was peacefultoday.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew Imposed On FerozabadThe Times of India (1861-current); Sep 19, 1960; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of IndiaPg- 1Curfew Imposed On Ferozabad60 PEOPLE HURT IN BOMBING INCIDENTAGRA, September IS.r*URFEW was today clamped down on Ferozabad, about 35 ^ miles from here, after more than 60 people had been injured in a bombing incident last night. Stabbing cases bad followed the incident.The bomb, it was officially stated, was thrown at a Ram-lila procession while it was passing in front of the Jama Masjid.The District Magistrate and high police officials who rushed to the scene took into custody 38 people, including the Imam and some trustees of the Masjid.About a dozen stabbing cases were reported in the town this morning. A battalion of the Provincial Armed Constabulary rushed to assist the police and took positions at various strategic points.Medical help was sent to Ferozabad from Agra. According to first reports, the condition of four among the injured in the bombing incident was serious.The place where the bomb was thrown was the scene of communal disturbances on August 12.The police then had opened jfire on a violent crowd.—P.T.I.Bumper Crop Of 141 Million TonsGOOD PROSPECTS IN RUSSIABy RALPH PARKER “The times of India” News ServiceMOSCOW, September 17: Authoritative sources said today that a gain harvest as good as that of 1958, when the total topped 141 million tons, was in prospect this year. ,The bumper crop will be more than cient to compensate for the poor.mdltidfitt soutto Of hlgfcgfade wnwt. The Ukraine harvest is reported to he average to goodi	. . 'Vigorous measures are being taken in Kazakhstan, the Soviet Union’s new; bread-basket, to get in the crop. They include a considerable expansion Of storage space, the provision of better housing for farmers and the sending of drivers, mechanics and, where necessary, farm machinery from other areas where harvesting has been completed. The problem was complicated by a, delay of some 12 days in the harvest period because of climatic conditions.Last year’s shortcomings in management, which were later severely criticised by the party leadership And ,vhich led to the demotion of Mr. Nikolai Belyayev, then First Secretary if the Central Committee of the Kazakhstan Communist Party, resulted in large quantities of ripe grain emaining ungamered. Authoratative :ources appear to be confident that here will not be a. repetition of the iituation which the Prime Minister, rfr. Khrushchev, had described as ‘very bad”.	.1Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿Curfew eased in KanpurThe Times of India (J86J-current); Apr 23, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India pg. 20Curfew eased in KanpurKANPUR, April 22 (PTI): Curfew was relaxed for two hours from 10 a.m. today in the trouble-torn areas here following some improvement in the situation since the last two days, according to official sources.' The sources said no untoward iincident was reported from any part jof the city during the curfew relaxation period.However, indefinite curfew clamped in Bajaria, Sisamau and Beconganj localities here, following violent incidents on Wednesday last, continued.At least 161 people had been arrested so far in connection with the incidents.LTTE frees TN fishermenRAMESWARAM, April 22 (UNI): Ml the 57 fishermen, who had been held captive by the LTTE at Pesalai, in north Sri Lanka since April 17, lave been released.The fishermen on their arrival here last evening told newsmen that they were taken into custody by the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam [LTTE), to draw the Tamil Nadu government attention about the atrocities of a few fishermen from Rameswaram against Sri Lankan fishermen.The fishermen said the LTTE men were on the lookout for two green painted boats named Ramajayam and Raman Thunai in which the alleged offenders from Rameswaram freauentlv committed atrocitiesReproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
﻿One killed in Udaipur riotsThe Times of India (J86J-current); Oct 5, 1990; ProQuest Historical Newspapers: The Times of India Pg- 11One killed inUdaipurriotsJAIPUR, Oct 4 (UNI); One person was killed and more than 13 were injured as communal riots erupted in Udaipur and Rawathbhatia in Qiit-torgarh district of Rajasthan yesterday.inaetimte curlew was clamped on Udaipur city following violence and police firing that left one person dead and over ten injured, the police said.The police fired several rounds to quell violent mobs at two places in the city. The violence, however, continued despite the curfew.In Rawathbhatia in Chittorgarh district, the police fired to disperse a violent mob which ransacked and set fire to several shops. According to police sources, the mob also fired at the police. Three people were injured, the police added.The violent mob ransacked and set ablaze several shops and damaged the welcome arches set up for the Shri Ram Jyoti procession in Kamal Gali. The police resorted to lathi-charge.Soon after, a large number of people with lathis and lethal weapons indulged in heavy stone throwing at the police.The police also lathi-charged violent mobs in the Clock. Tower, Barbhuja Ghati Motighahata, fiariminder Singh Khurra, and Vlukheijee Chowk areas.As the situation deteriorated, the listrict administration imposed an ndefinite curfew in the entire city, -ater, the religious procession was j ailed off.Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.
